[music]
>> This year we think it's a story about
broadening. We're in a period where
investors can have more confidence. The
key issue here is really on the risky
asset side.
>> There's just more vulnerability
>> [music]
>> on the volatility side. We want to stick
with earnings which we think are going
to be the driver of equity markets over
the course of this year.
>> Bloomberg Surveillance live from Davos
with Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from Davos, Switzerland for our
audience worldwide. Good morning. Good
morning. The World Economic Forum taking
on a new dimension. Davos interrupted
Wednesday morning here in Davos,
Switzerland. The President of the United
States [music] addressing this forum,
addressing the world, addressing the
nation. Affordability in focus but I
have to say the smell of tariffs hanging
in the Swiss air for the last few days.
>> Yeah, this really has been dominating
the entire conversation. A question
around the NATO alliance, a question
around exactly what the US's role will
be and a question around how much the
geopolitical fault lines are changing at
the same time that business is booming.
[music]
>> Typically they spend months, maybe 12
months planning the agenda for an event
like this. The President's got his own
ideas about what the agenda should be
and everyone's getting in line.
Absolutely. He's really coming here as a
disruptor and you talk [music] about the
speech he's going to be giving. It's
really twofold if we think about it. He
needs to address the everyday consumer
in America ahead of the midterm
elections. [music] That is President
Trump's North Star this year. Talking
about affordability, maybe lambasting
what he would call the global elite by
veering off that path and not thinking
about the everyday man. At the same
time, for many people they find that
this Greenland issue has just been an
absolute distraction to the Davos
agenda.
>> Our North Star here at Bloomberg
Surveillance one thing, financial
markets. Check it out so far this
morning. [music] Equity futures down and
down hard. Bond selling off, Treasury
yields up, the dollar weaker. That is
not a great mix, a reminder maybe of
what happened last April. But it's not
just the US bond market. Bramo, we need
to talk about what's developing in
Japan. [music] Check out the long end of
the curve on Japanese yields. 10s, 30s,
40s. We're talking about 20 [music]
basis point moves out of Tokyo. The 30
basis 30-year yields over in Japan have
seen an increase of 38 basis points over
[music] the previous two sessions on a
proposal to potentially A holds a snap
elections and B also increase some of
the assistance to the nation. A real
question here about how much what we're
seeing in the US bond market is being
driven by Japanese bond markets
introducing more volatility and how much
this has to do exactly to your point
about the sell America trade going back
to liberation. There's certainly a sell
America flavor to the price action this
morning and we'll get into it. We talked
about this Anne Marie non-stop last
April
>> [music]
>> and we're seeing it again. Yields are up
but the dollar's weaker. You mentioned
gold a little bit earlier when we were
planning the program together. Gold's
rallying, silver as well. These are the
kind of things that don't speak well to
the policy coming out of the White
House.
>> Well, I was on Air Force One right
before the President reversed track and
I asked him about the Trump put and it
was a question he didn't like. And he
always talks about how he sends out his
Treasury Secretary Scott Besten to
soothe the market. Well, guess who is
standing in Davos this morning soothing
the market, comparing the consternation
we saw on April 2nd on Liberation
[music]
Day to what's happening right now. And
the Treasury Secretary says this is the
same kind of hysteria and he's urging
everyone here to sit back,
>> [music]
>> take a deep breath and let things play
out.
>> a deep breath. Hopefully at some point
in the next week we might find out who
the next [music] Fed chair is. Okay,
that's yes. That That was next week.
>> Now it's a week. Okay. We're shortening
time horizons here. Exactly and this is
what people are banking on here for the
optimism because rate cuts will save
everything.
>> Coming up this week, fantastic lineup
for you. We'll catch up with the Morgan
Stanley Chairman and CEO Ted Pick, the
Bank [music] of America Chairman and CEO
Brian Moynihan, the US Commerce
Secretary Wilbur Ross
and a whole lot more. Plenty of
questions for the Commerce Secretary I
imagine coming from the European side as
he touches down in Switzerland.
>> Yeah, 200% tariffs on champagne. Is this
a reality? Exactly how far are you
willing to go at a time when relations
are increasingly fraught?
>> We begin this hour though with stocks
falling worldwide. The standoff between
the US and Europe presses on. Joining us
to kick off our coverage here at the
World Economic Forum, Vis Raghavan, the
head of banking at Citi. Vis, good
morning. Good to see you. Good morning.
I want to start by thinking about where
we were 12 months ago like peak optimism
around America, everything's going to be
fantastic. In markets it was. Is that
all we're looking at? Has something
changed in the last 12 months? Look, I
it was inauguration week, right? Last
time we were here and and you could
just, you know, it was palpable
how
leaning into America pretty much, you
know, investor sentiment everywhere you
looked it was, you know, all roads lead
all roads lead to America.
I think you that US sentiment is
unabated. I mean, if you even look at
markets today
all roads continue to lead to America.
Capital formations are happening there.
Liquidity is all, you know, flocking
there. You see the markets and I think
the only wild card is macro geopolitics
and everything that you guys said We've
got to ask this, does it really matter?
I was looking at a PwC survey that was
released yesterday where they literally
surveyed hundreds and hundreds of CEOs
and they asked them to pick the region
they're most excited about. 35% America.
Without doubt the leader. That was up
from last year from 30%. Doesn't that
speak to the kind of economic activity
you and the guys are seeing on the
ground at Citi, the pipeline that's
building into 26? I mean, the pipeline
going into this year is one of the
strongest I've I've seen. And if you you
and this is this is across the board. So
there's not you know, typically you have
years where tech is doing really well
and then some years health care and you
see the the contrarian, you know,
defensive sectors come in.
Across the board every sector you're
seeing a, you know, a real desire to do
deals. And then you have this AI overlay
where every company is looking at, you
know, what are the kind of what what's
my AI nexus? How am I going to get more
efficient? So you, you know, it's a
incredibly potent deal environment and
and it's it's and all the drivers, you
know, there's so much liquidity also
that is driving this kind of deal
frenzy. I think at least, you know, at
least from a market point of view that
looks like it's going to be staying here
for a while. We'll get into the pipeline
but you keep talking about how the only
thing that could disrupt it is
geopolitics. And then a lot of this deal
activity is stemming from easy market
conditions that have completely ignored
geopolitics. What would you see that
would start to make you think, hold on a
second, maybe it matters a little bit
more than chief executives are talking
here. But let's go back again to this
Davos last year. We said tariffs was a
headwind.
And we were really worried about it. We
were spooked. And then net net the
market found out. I mean, April November
there was just total hiatus, everything
stalled. And then there was this savage
rebound.
What tariffs showed us was there's a
path, you know, all's well that ends
well. There's a path, there's a shock
and awe
and then you land somewhere which is
reasonable and then you shrug and and
you kind of move on.
The the tariff thing has been pretty
much assimilated, you know, you you
until the recent kind of, you know, new
tariff saga. The the tariff stuff had
kind of, you know, folks had digested,
you know, 10% was a base case, you know,
up to 20% I can assimilate and digest.
If it's 25, 30 then do I kind of rejig
my supply chains? Do I make in America?
Do I nearshore, offshore, friendshore?
So that played out. Then you saw, you
know, the the whole kind of, you know,
Venezuela market shrugged off. Then you
saw the whole card
thing market shrugged off. So
fundamentally what markets are saying is
this will also land. The the the final
outcome may be,
you know, different from, you know, the
first shock and awe and hopefully sanity
prevails and then you'll find some, you
know, a compromise and, you know, folks
will have to adjust and then this will
land well. So, you know, you may talk
about is this complacency? Are we
sleepwalking into something? Who knows?
But history shows us that yes, we will
we will get there. Your team saw an 84%
increase in advisory fees in the fourth
quarter year over year. It has been an
incredible blockbuster amount of
issuance and you see a similar year
shaping up. How much is predicated on
rate cuts coming from Federal Reserve?
I think it's not entirely predicated on
rate cuts. I think rate cuts helps.
But it's really driven by there is an
underpinning of equity valuations. If
you look at where equity valuations are
and and, you know, multiples have gone
up but earnings have kept pace. So net
net, you know, earnings have kept pace
with the valuations that you're seeing.
But this puts a lot of pressure on
boards, on on management teams to show
growth.
And if that growth is not forthcoming
then, you know, you get punished, you
know, whether it's activists, whether
it's your shareholders, etc. They will
be their feet.
So that growth has either got to come
organically or if it's not going to come
organically I've got to go buy. So there
is so which fundamentally then you have
this
melting pot like, you know, two and a
half three trillion dollars of private
equity firepower
which, you know, they incentivize to
deploy that that capital. So effectively
you have so much buying interest that
valuations and share prices underpin
because if you like something at a
hundred, you like it even better at
eighty and even better at seventy. So
net net you know there's a better buyer
for those assets. So so you, you know,
that M&A team
in in last year was a great year for the
street. Citi had a a fantastic year.
That M&A team is going to continue
bar some geopolitical kind of because
this is entirely about confidence.
You know, valuations can go up and down.
You can you can, you know,
you you'll adjust. But if that
confidence goes then effectively their
shutters come down and and things will
stall and and come to a halt. How How
confident are you in potentially seeing
a Trump credit card that banks might
roll out that's capped at 10%? I mean,
look, I think when you when you look at
the the the the point in question here
is affordability and we all agree that,
you know, that is that has got to be
dealt with And we're all in consensus on
that. I think the the the key on capping
rates, etc. The question is what you
don't want to do is
you know, squeeze out or or you know,
drain credit from exactly that section
of the population that needs it most.
So, you know, once again,
this will land somewhere and you know,
there'll be an element of adjustment and
compromise and and we'll be
>> I have to bring it up because today is
January 20th and it's the self-imposed
deadline by the President of the United
States that he told banks needed to
adhere to this. Is Citi in touch with
the White House? With Congress?
Absolutely. We we are we are we we are
in constant communication with with you
know, various policy makers and the
like.
And and and the industry, too, because
it's not just Citi. It is the old street
that is
you know, and and once again, my my you
know, I think affordability thing is
something that has to be dealt with and
and we will land somewhere. And it's
something that's going to come up no
doubt in the address from the president
in the next 24 hours. Just let the
record show you brought up the credit
card issue, we didn't. You went
[laughter] No, no, that's that's that
was the I have every right to say that.
That was
that was the warm-up [laughter] session.
You went there. I think the bulk of this
conversation so far, and I'm sure you
feel it, reflects on the environment and
the backdrop and not execution. And
that's unfair to Citi and I want to get
into that. Jane sent out a note that
that was widely circulated in the last
few days and it was about the vestiges
of old habits falling away. Can you
breathe a little bit of life for the
people who aren't working at Citi just
into the story of how execution has
changed at the bank? How you're building
the wallet size when you get a deal?
What's happening? Yeah, look, I think
this is you know, this is a high
performance mindset.
You're you've seen incredible work done
by Jane and the leadership team on
transformation, on you know, remediation
and really setting this company up you
know, for the future.
What you saw to last year and and also I
think you know, the quarters before was
the it was a demonstration. It was a
taste of the earnings power
>> [music]
>> of the company. So, whether you take
banking, I mean we were up 35% in in in
in revenue and and you saw 85% in M&A.
Markets had a superb year. You saw the
same in wealth. You saw the same in TTS
in services. You know, it's it's
globally one of the premier platforms.
So, what what you're seeing
is a
a real focus
on making sure that you know, this is
this is our time. This is our moment. We
want to be leaning in and and absolutely
kind of driving
>> mean in practice though? Because you
talked a lot about the results. I'm
really interested in the approach. Are
you banging down the doors of potential
clients? More face-to-face meetings?
What are you actually doing in practice
that has changed? One Citi. So, it's
really being joined up across banking,
across markets, across services. So,
clients see a uniform coordinated one
Citi approach where through a single
point of entry they they they're
absolutely savoring the best of what
Citi has to offer. Which means
businesses over communicating,
businesses joined up, taking calls for
the whole, not just what is in one's own
kind of myopic interest.
Second is really around making sure that
we are both
getting our fair share
and making sure that we are earning,
i.e. through content, through ideas,
through intensity, making sure we are
earning our fair share. And and the and
the two are kind of linked because you
know, we we have incredible
relationships globally, probably the
premier global truly global footprint.
We have we have lending relationships,
we have services relationships. The
question is what are we missing? What
business are we not doing? And making
sure that we're all organized to go
after that. And a lot of that you have
to earn. So, it's not just about
demanding it. It's about you know,
absolutely making sure that we're
earning every piece of business. Jane's
also talked a lot about cutting staff
and there have been some pretty big job
cuts at Citigroup. How much are you
replacing some of those roles or
fortifying some of the front office
workers using different artificial
intelligence programs? So, two two parts
to that. One, the cuts, etc. are
something that you know, we'd flagged a
long time back. So, that's just
systematically executing executing
against what we said we would do and I
think that's panning out. AI is becoming
absolutely entrenched in in pretty much
you know, what what we are doing and and
what we want to do.
The easy wins have been around you know,
whether it's processes, whether it's
been around maker checker, you know,
fraud prevention, you know, controls,
AML. All of that has been you know,
easier to get you know, ramped up.
The work in progress, and this is really
kind of a and this is true probably for
the whole street,
is around the front office creative,
innovative idea generation, out of the
box. And this is true enough banking,
you know, what what can you know, if you
are the the the CEO or the CFO of a
company or the board, what can I tell
you that you don't already know? I know
what what is innovative? What is
creative?
And remember too that if I can run AI,
the the company can also run the same AI
algorithms and you know, so it's a
constant race to be
more creative, more innovative, you
know, ahead of the pack. And I think
that is where a lot of you know,
a lot of dollars are going in. And there
you also have to be smart. In some
cases, you want to be early followers,
not early adopters because this is
expensive. So, I think the key is to be
smart, nimble and very curated in how
you approach it. Any thoughts on
Greenland or have you got to go?
>> [laughter]
>> You should just say we got to go. We
have we have to go. I think it's good to
see you.
Thank you, sir. Congratulations on the
last quarter. Looking forward to
catching up with you later this year.
>> you later. Thank you. We appreciate it.
Vis Raghavan there of Citi. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide. The
news flow absolutely unbelievable over
the last 24 hours. With that, with your
Bloomberg Brief, here's Vani Quit. Hey,
Vani. Good morning, John. Thank you.
[music] President Donald Trump saying he
will meet with several parties in Davos
over his plans to take control [music]
of Greenland. The president said he had
a quote very good telephone call with
NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte and
told him quote Greenland is imperative
for national and world security.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said
President Trump could announce his Fed
chair pick as soon as next week.
Speaking in Davos, the Treasury
Secretary said BlackRock's Rick Rieder,
National Economic Council Director Kevin
Hassett,
>> [music]
>> Fed Governor Chris Waller, and former
Governor Kevin Warsh are the final
contenders to replace Jay [music] Powell
as Fed chair.
A personalized cancer treatment
developed by Moderna and Merck helps
prevent the recurrence of high-risk skin
cancer after 5 years. The company saying
patients with severe melanoma who got
the injection along with Merck's cancer
drug [music] Keytruda were 49% less
likely to die or have their cancer
return as those who received only
Keytruda.
And that is your Bloomberg Brief. John.
Hey, Vani. Appreciate it. More from Vani
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, reigniting trade tensions.
I don't think they're going to push back
too much. Look, we have to have it. They
have to have this done. So, we'll see
what happens, but uh
let's put it this way. It's going to be
a very interesting Davos.
>> [music]
>> Live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning. What a start to
the price action following a long
weekend stateside. Here in Switzerland
waking up to this. Equity futures down
and down hard. Bond selling off.
Treasury yields higher [music] by six
basis points or so, but it's the
accompanying dollar weakness that
reminds you of early April and
Liberation Day and the risk aversion we
saw around that period. Are we seeing a
repeat as the president threatens many
nations attending this get-together in
Davos this week with more tariffs? Yeah,
there's a speculation that some of the
volatility is coming from Japan, but I
think you are absolutely right to point
out [music] the dollar trade. If you
also see the disruption in US bonds
versus say German bonds, it is a more
significant sell-off in that typical
haven trade. So, the flavor, the whiff
of Liberation Day type of sell America
trading, unclear how far it will go as
United States traders wake up.
>> There was a sense to some extent last
year that the price action constrained
the president. That if there were
guardrails over what happened with
policy, it was in the bond market. And
maybe we got a hint of that from the
Treasury [music] Secretary a few times
through last year. Is this the start of
something bigger just to push back in
financial [music] markets?
>> Treasury Secretary says this is the same
as Syria as April 2nd and everyone needs
to take a deep breath, calm down. There
will be potentially maybe an off-ramp.
[music]
Remember, it was the bond market that
got quote yippy that the president
talked about. Then we saw him reverse
course cuz the question always was, is
this
>> [music]
>> the new rules of the road or these
negotiations? And I think at the moment
it's coming to Davos, Switzerland with
shock and awe, but potentially setting
up new negotiations.
>> Many people will be sitting there
thinking this morning looking at the
Bloomberg terminal. You know what? I've
seen this movie before. I'm conditioned.
I know what happens next.
>> [music]
>> You buy the sell-off. We rip into year
end. Are we going to see a repeat of
last year? What's phenomenal is yes, a
lot has changed with policy, but markets
have been totally okay. And just to
reflect on the conversation we had with
Citi just moments ago. Listen to them
talk about the pipeline and the optimism
for the American economy and then
compare that to the front pages of the
European newspapers about a breakdown of
the transatlantic relationship. Does
something have to give here? Well, it
feels like there is a dichotomy right
now between the optimism [music] that
we're feeling and hearing from CEOs and
the C-suite more broadly. Consumers are
spending. Markets are freely operating.
There is a sense of growth around the
world versus the sort of catastrophic
new world order types of questions. The
issue is and Vis Raghavan actually
really highlighted this well. In the
past, volatility tied to geopolitics
never lasted. So, people are ignoring it
more so at the same time that people
quietly are saying they're diversifying
away from the United States. You're
hearing that more. So, that's actually
something to pay attention to.
>> It's day one of coverage for the
Bloomberg Surveillance team here at the
World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland. On the surveillance this
morning, reigniting trade tensions.
I don't think they're going to push back
too much. Look,
we have to have it. They have to have
this done. They can't protect it. NATO's
been warning
uh Denmark for about 20 years now,
longer than that, 25 years. They've been
warning Denmark about the Russian
threat. And it's not only Russia, it's
also China. So, we'll see what happens,
but uh
let's put it this way, it's going to be
a very interesting Davos.
That was the president of the United
States ahead of his appearance in the
next 24 hours. Joining us from
Washington, Tyler Kendall. Tyler, the
president setting this agenda on fire.
His approach to tomorrow. What do we
know?
Yeah, John, good morning. I mean,
President Trump is really just ramping
up the pressure as he heads to Davos.
That speech tomorrow now slated for 8:30
a.m. Eastern. And though he's abroad, of
course, we know that he's going to be
focusing in on some domestic issues,
including that his NEC director Kevin
Hassett has already previewed that he's
going to roll out a plan related to
letting Americans use and pull from
their 401k for a down payment on homes.
But even so, it is hard to ignore that
he has only been ratcheting up the
disputes as he heads in to the World
Economic Forum. And even in just the
last few hours as European leaders are
reacting to his latest threat of a 10%
tariff by February 1st against those
countries that have rallied around
support for Greenland. And it appears
now that issues are dovetailing after
French President Macron raised concerns
not just about Greenland, but also the
White House's proposed Board of Peace in
Gaza, which the person familiar tells us
this president is looking to finalize
this Thursday where you are in Davos.
But in response to uh the French
president's concerns, President Trump is
now floating a 200% tariff against
French wine and champagne. While it
remains to be seen if that is actually
going to come to fruition, it is just
the latest dispute after a weekend of
escalation as Bloomberg News now reports
that the EU is considering pulling out
of its trade deal with the US and
weighing its own retaliatory tariffs.
Now, John, I think it's worth mentioning
here that all this comes after a week of
meetings here in Washington where
administration officials met with
officials from Greenland and Denmark,
and that was considered to have gone
relatively well. They actually set up
working groups to keep the diplomatic
channels open, but it is clear that
President Trump didn't feel that way.
John, of course, we're going to be
watching those remarks, but also who he
does and doesn't meet when he visits
there in Davos this week.
Tyler Kendall with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. If you
want to upset the elites in Davos,
Switzerland, tariffs on champagne one
way to do it maybe. That's definitely
one way to do it, especially if you want
to come into really with a a bang. Also,
the tariffs Trump's are talk uh Trump is
talking about, they might get overturned
this morning at 10:00 a.m. when the
Supreme Court has a decision day, an
opinion day, and we might get that
decision. So, basically, he's talking
about tariffs that we don't even know if
he's able to use legally. We've got a
packed agenda here in Davos, Switzerland
happening right now over at Bloomberg
House. Bloomberg editor-in-chief John
Micklethwait sitting down with the
Anthropic CEO, Dario Amodei. Let's take
a listen. or superhumanly good at
recommending shopping or ads or various
things like that.
Anthropic has focused, I think, first
and foremost on enterprises, developers,
and to the extent we do consumer, we're
very focused on productivity and and the
kind of high-value end of the of the
consumer work. And so, that that gives
very that gives very different
incentives, right? If you if you want to
get things done, um you know, we talked
about AGI and superintelligence before.
One of the things I would say is that,
you know, there are superintelligences
today, and they're basically large
corporations, right? They're smarter
than any human can be at, you know,
solving the problem of, you know,
shipping shipping commerce at the lowest
possible cost or making solar panels at
the lowest possible cost or launching
rockets at the lowest possible possible
cost. And and so, there's really high
returns to intelligence in this area,
which I think incentivizes us to to kind
of to kind of build the right thing.
It's it's also, you know, it I think
it's I think it's a business that is
more stable than consumer. We don't
need, you know, we don't need ads. We
don't need um
uh you know, large numbers of free
users. We can we can just very directly
create value, right? There aren't all
these weird externalities of like you're
prioritizing engagement, you're
prioritizing these other things, you're
generating all this slop. We just make
stuff that that people can use.
A year ago here, you you warned you said
the Chinese were catching up a bit. Do
you think now the Chinese have fallen
behind?
You know, I I I I think they never
really caught up that much. So, you
know, of course, there was this huge
excitement around Deep Seek, right? Um
but, you know, the the truth was a
couple of things. One,
um you know, those models are very
optimized for the benchmarks. It's
actually very easy to optimize a model
for a finite list of benchmarks. When we
go out into the world, right? When we're
when we're when we're um
uh you know, competing against other
companies for enterprise contracts, we
see just honestly and candidly, we see
Google and we see OpenAI. Every once in
a while, we see a couple other US
players. Um I I have almost never
lost a deal, lost a contract to to a
Chinese model. But now you have the
Trump administration, and I think you've
already protested about this,
giving high-speed chips and video chips
to the Chinese. That's right. That's
right. The thing that is holding them
back, and they've said it themselves,
the CEOs of these companies say it's the
embargo on chips that's holding us back.
They explicitly say this. And and now,
indeed, you know, there are some
policies, and I hope they change their
mind, to uh you know, to explicitly send
not quite our latest generation of
chips, although it was reported that
even that was being considered, um but,
you know, the the generation of chips
that's that's just one back that's still
extremely powerful. Um and we are many
years ahead of China in terms of our in
terms of our ability to make chips. So,
I think it would be a big mistake to
ship these chips. Um you know, the the
the analogy I thought of, if you think
about the incredible national security
implications of building model building
models that are essentially cognition,
that are essentially intelligence,
right? I've called where we're going
with this a country of geniuses in a
data center, right? So, imagine 100,000
100 million people smarter than any
Nobel Prize winner, and it's going to be
under the control of one one country or
another. Um I So, so I I I I think this
is crazy. I think it's, you know, it's a
bit like, you know, I I I I don't know,
like selling selling, you know, nuclear
weapons to to North Korea and, you know,
bragging, "Oh, yeah, but we made the the
case so well."
>> your friend your your friend David Sacks
is basically arming the Chinese. I
No, I I I I wouldn't refer to any
particular people, but, you know, I
would I would just say that this
particular policy I think is is is is,
you know, akin to Yeah, it's not not not
not well-advised. Another issue in this,
you know, it could be you could be
right. All this technology be going in
the right direction, but economically,
we could be heading towards a bubble.
Do you think that's true? Yeah, yeah.
So, um I would separate out the two
things. One is the basic exponential. Um
and that's what we've been talking
about. That's been kind of the
technological direction. Um and there,
you know, just like with Moore's law,
you can never be sure that
[clears throat] the technology is sort
of fully going to advance, it's going to
keep going, right? It's a fundamental
inductive problem. But now that I've
seen well over a decade of it, I would
say I am pretty confident that it's
going to continue, or at least I'm more
confident than I've ever been at any
time in the past, that it's going to
continue to where the models are
basically smarter than humans at at
almost everything. And I think there's a
good chance that even happens in the
next year or two. Again, seems far away,
but but this property of exponentials
that they like they they they catch you
by surprise. And if it's not a year or
two, I think it's pretty likely that
it's, you know, what at least less than
five years, within the 2020s. I think
this moment will come in the 2020s. So,
so, you know, kind of I'll I'll get into
the economic
>> you mean? Yeah, I'll I'll I'll I'll get
into the economic diffusion, which I
think is complicated, but I don't want
anyone to forget like
that, you know, that as long as we have
that fundamental technological gain,
like there's going to be many trillions
of revenue, maybe many trillions per
company in this in this area because the
economic potential is so great. Now,
there's a separate thing, which is that
we don't know how fast enterprises,
companies are actually going to be able
to use this technology, right? The the
the uses of this what the technology is
capable of today is probably 10 times
what the enterprises of the world are
are able to are able to deploy. And and
I see it with our customers every day,
where I'll talk to a CEO, and they'll
understand, and their executive team
will understand the power of this
technology, you know, for for automating
customer service, for coding, for many
other things. But they have a company of
tens of thousands of people who are
perfectly brilliant people, but experts
in something that is not AI, and have to
learn to use AI. And that, you know,
different names for it, change
management, enterprise transformation,
whatever it's called.
The the need to do this is very slow. It
can take years. And so we have this
powerful technology that I have an
incredible amount of confidence will
generate trillions in revenue, but we
don't know exactly when.
You know, plus plus or minus a few
years, we don't know exactly when. And
and and in the meantime, companies have
to buy compute to serve all that
revenue. And you you don't want to buy
too much because, you know, you could
financially overextend yourself, and you
don't want to buy too little because
then you can't serve all the revenue.
And and so that's where the kind of
economic and financial business risk
>> side. So but you are involved in that by
building data centers, you're spending
vast fortunes. You've got the deals with
Nvidia. Do you worry that that's going
to come back and bite you? So so we have
some advantages in this. Um there's a
stability to enterprise business that
there is not to consumer, right?
Consumer's very fickle.
Enterprise purchasing, enterprise
predictions are predictable.
Also, enterprise tends to have better
margins. The margin is basically how
much buffer you have between buying too
little and buying too much, between what
you have to pay for and what you have to
support in revenue. So we have a number
of advantages here, but I I you know, I
won't deny that there is some inherent
risk in any in all of the companies to
this process. Whenever you have an
upside whose amount is uncertain
or even whose timing is uncertain, and
you have to make financial decisions
somewhat blind to those things. You have
to you have to decide early um to you
know, to to build out capital, to build
out resources a few years in advance.
There's going to be some inherent risk
that's driven by that uncertainty. And I
do think that some companies have
probably overbought. I'm not able to
look at their financials. I just know
what they announce, and I'm like, "Whoa,
I wouldn't necessarily have done that."
I'm pretty happy with the decisions that
we've made, um but you know, and I can't
be I can't be sure about others, but it
it is entirely consistent that this
could be the most transformative
technology in the history of the world
that some companies will do really well,
but but not every company may. Very
quickly on that, as you said, you're on
the enterprise side. On the consumer
side,
Open AI with a big lead, you know, there
seems to be a lot of talk that Gemini's
now talking catching up. Is that your
impression as well? I mean, you know,
we're not in that market, so I so I
don't know about it.
>> you the discussion as a whole.
>> Yeah, you know, the the statistics would
seem to suggest that. It would seem to
suggest that, you know, with their kind
of greater distribution, with their
greater existing reach, they've been
able to make a lot of progress in in in
kind of recent times. And and again,
this is why, you know, consumer's
fickle. This is why I would be careful
if, you know, if if I were a consumer
company in in in, you know, in in in in
kind of, you know, what, you know, in in
what was on my balance sheet. Let's jump
then to that big question which we
originally asked.
>> That was the Bloomberg editor-in-chief,
John Micklethwait, with the Anthropic
CEO, Dario Amodei. If you're just tuning
into the program, welcome. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance, and we've got to
start with the price action. Equities
down and down hard, we're off by 1.6% on
the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq, big tech
getting absolutely hammered so far this
morning. If you turn to the bond market,
Treasury yields on 10s, never mind 420.
Remember the first few weeks of the
year, really tight trading ranges, 10s
can't get through 420. Now we're having
a little sneak peek of life close to
430.
>> Yeah, and the real question for so many
people is why. On one hand, you've got
Japan, of course, creating a lot of
volatility. On the other side, there is
this whisper that it's a sell America
kind of trade. We've been talking about
that all morning. It even spurred
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent to come
out and say, "That defies logic." So
that is a scuttlebutt, even though we
are seeing this across the world.
>> More on that in just a moment. Need to
get you some single names, some morning
movers. Let's cross over to Danny for
more. Hey, Danny. Hey, John. A a tough
session for a lot of these names. I want
to point out JP Morgan getting caught
off in the sell-off, down 1.8%.
Is this politics related because we did
have the President of the United States
on Saturday saying that he would be
suing JP Morgan for what he claimed
[music] was debanking him after January
6th, the
and that political mess
>> [music]
>> that came from that. JP Morgan, for
itself, they have said that we don't do
that. We don't debank people for
political reasons, and that's [music] as
far as they went to comment on it. But
those shares down 1.7%. The President
also expressed dismay that the Wall
Street Journal reported that Jamie Dimon
had been one of his Fed picks. Trump, of
course, pushing back on that story.
Elsewhere, you pointed out tech
>> [music]
>> having a really bad day. I should point
out all those memory chip stocks falling
hard and falling hard in today's
session. Apple also getting caught up in
the sell-off, down 1.2%. A downgrade
from Citi saying that it's because of
the memory chip stocks, because they're
so expensive, Apple's going to struggle
with its margins, but it only downgrades
it to 315. So that's still about a 25%
gain from current [music] share price.
Uh finally, rounding things off with
some deal news this morning. Aptevo
Therapeutics with a deal GSK will be
buying the company [music] in a $2.2
billion deal. It values the company at
about a 65% premium from the close. They
make a lot of immunology and
anti-inflammatory deals. So the price
action just about getting to that
premium. We're up 64% [music] in today's
session, John.
Hi, Danny. Thank you. More from Danny in
the next hour. Plenty of price action to
kick off this Tuesday morning. [music]
Turning to the economy, companies
adapting to rapid shifts in the labor
market as AI integration becomes
increasingly widespread. It's going to
be a huge feature of the conversation
here in Davos, Switzerland. And to add
to that conversation, joining us now is
Becky Frankiewicz, the president and
chief strategy officer at Manpower
Group. Becky, good morning. Good to see
you. Nice to see you.
>> Let's get into this. Jobless growth is a
big big story, I think, for this World
Economic Forum. And arguably, the story
the President's got to address himself
when he speaks at this forum tomorrow.
Can you describe the levels of growth
we're seeing and whether we're seeing a
decoupling in the level of job growth
that we've seen in the last 12 months?
Yes, I think what we're seeing is the
anticipation of AI. So that's the
interesting thing. AI is still in its
infancy. It's a baby, and we're starting
to see it grow up, but it's not embedded
in most companies still today. And so
really what we're seeing is the
anticipation of impact, and that's
what's causing people to either delay,
either increase, or not need to hire.
And that's where we are right now. So
you're saying companies try to increase
flexibility by leaning into temporary
workers just a little bit more? Yes, so
you're the third person I've heard that
from even today. And so it's a hot
topic, but the data would say no, we're
not seeing that yet. I think what
companies are saying now is we've
probably postponed hiring as long as we
can. We need to do something, and in
this unknown of what AI is going to do,
let's bring in workers that we have more
flexibility with. And so we haven't seen
the data show that yet, but that is
definitely the conversation. Who is
getting hired, to the extent that there
are jobs being created? Is it people who
are experienced and have already been in
the work
workforce for a while, or is it younger
people who actually are natives of the
technology? Yeah, it's varying by
sector. And so in the tech space, we're
seeing that the job description is
requiring 5 years or more experience
because you can, because there's been
quite a slowdown in tech hiring.
However, you go into healthcare, we're
seeing a decline in the number of years
of experience. And so we're starting to
see a nuanced job market in a way that
we haven't seen at least since COVID.
How much do you expect a lot of the jobs
that have been cut to never come back?
That as a lot of these companies really
understand the efficiencies more, if
really are in the early innings, we are
having a structural shift in the labor
market where many fewer workers are
actually needed. Yes, so what we're
seeing today is when a job is hired,
about 20% of the time, it's like for
like, which means 80% of time, it's a
nuance on the job. So we're already
starting to see jobs be hired that
aren't the same as the jobs they're
replacing. That's interesting cuz last
night I heard an executive say that
firing will be very quick, but hiring
will take years, and that's the bridge
policy makers need to focus on. Would
you agree with that assessment? Yeah,
and I think that yes, I would. And it's
the humanity in that space. And so we
have this duality happening right now
between the now and the next. How do I
lead for the now and build for the next?
And what's in between are is our
workforce. And how do we make sure our
workforce has confidence that they can
of course contribute today, but also be
ready to contribute tomorrow? A big
feature of this Davos is the President
of the United States. And he's been
leaking out what he's going to talk
about in terms of affordability. How
does Washington, just in general, or
even governments internationally, how do
they address this issue? Of
affordability? Of this crisis of
potentially AI taking jobs. Yeah, well,
I think, you know, again, 3 years ago at
Davos, the talk was AI's coming for your
job. Now the talk is AI's coming to your
job. And that shift is an important one
cuz it means now we know AI will take
part of tasks, but the big unlock for AI
is when we think about the outcome that
we want and how you redesign the
process. And again, the duality of
humanity, we we need workers today. They
have to keep contributing, contributing,
which is why John asked me the question
about temporary labor, and how do we
keep flexibility because we have to
perform today towards an unknown future.
Some of these things are already
developing. We caught up with Citi Group
earlier this hour, and Lisa asked him
about what's happening with jobs.
They're doing this quietly anyway. If
you look at the overall staff levels at
some of these banks over the last
several years, they barely increased.
Profits have absolutely exploded.
Brahma, I would suggest if you look at
the banks on Wall Street, some of these
things are already happening. They have
actually contracted their staff at the
fastest pace, going back to even some of
the depths of the financial crisis, but
it's coming without that commensurate
slowdown. Exactly to your point, jobless
growth. Becky, what is making them more
productive?
Where is it coming from? Well, we're
we're just squeezing more for less is
what we're doing today. Again, waiting
to see what AI can come automate. But
when we ask companies if they're going
to hire or not going to hire, AI is only
20% impact on those answers. And so it
really is, how do we keep control of our
workforces while we're anticipating
something in the future? Earlier this
hour, I mentioned a PwC survey. I'm
going to mention it again because I I
it's absolutely amazing.
On a weekend and the start of the week
where all the news flow will be
dominated by tariffs and geopolitical
risk, you survey CEOs in America, survey
CEOs worldwide and ask them what is the
region they're most excited about and
it's America. And it's up on last year.
>> It's actually up on last year. It's gone
from 30% to 35%.
What is so hot about America right now?
Yeah, so one is the adoption of AI. I
mean the the American population is one
that says give it to me, I'll try it
versus are we sure it's going to work
with skepticism. And so part of it is
the entire culture of the country is
built on adoption and that translates
into the workforce. That is one. Two,
there is this drive for growth that's
part of the American spirit that I think
you're seeing show up. And so it some of
it is is I'd say soft um but the labor
market and growth is full of feelings,
John. It's one of the things we've
learned. We thought it was data, it's
actually not. It's how I feel. And
fortunately people are confident in
America today. How do you feel, Becky?
Feeling confident?
>> I'm I'm cautiously optimistic is what I
would say. I'm
I'm cautiously optimistic. Yes,
cautiously optimistic. Becky, it's good
to see you. Thank you.
>> Thanks for being here. Thank you. Becky
Frankiewicz there, the Manpower Group
president. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg Brief back with us. Here's
Vanya Quinn. Hey, Vanya. Hey, John.
Thank you. [music] Japanese Prime
Minister Sanae Takaichi's election pitch
to pause taxes on food sending bond
yields soaring to [music] records. The
rate on the 40 years surging past 4%.
That's the highest since its 2007
[music] debut. Continued volatility
expected in Tokyo trading ahead of the
snap election February 8th.
President Donald Trump inviting world
leaders to become members of his Gaza
board of peace. Invitees include the
leaders of Russia, [music] Turkey,
Argentina and Canada. According to a
draft charter seen by Bloomberg, Trump
administration is asking countries that
want a permanent spot to contribute at
least $1 billion.
French President Emmanuel Macron
declining to join the board.
Fed Chair Jay Powell will attend the Fed
Governor Lisa Cook's SCOTUS hearing.
>> [music]
>> Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
Powell plans to sit in on Wednesday's
session in the case of President Trump's
attempted firing of Cook.
>> [music]
>> Fed watchers and analysts say the case
will impact the president's ability to
fire Fed governors and influence [music]
the central bank.
And that is your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Hey, Vanya. Thank you. More from Vanya
in the next hour. Up next on the
program, financing the AI boom.
We are safely and soundly
deregulating the banking and financial
system. According to Oliver Wyman,
we may have added 2.5 trillion in
lending capacity which will help finance
our AI boom.
>> [music]
>> We're live at the World Economic Forum
in Davos, Switzerland waking up to a
sell-off in the equity market. Check it
out. Futures selling off over the last
24-48 hours continues so far this
morning. We're down by 1.6 on the S&P,
on the Nasdaq we're down by close to 2%
[music] with a strong strong width of
tariffs hanging in the Swiss air. This
is the move you've got in the bond
market. I have to say up front, the move
in the bond market is global. The bigger
move is actually in Japan but it's
dragging the old tie state side as well.
We're up by seven basis points on 10s,
up by close to 10 on 30s. With that move
in the bond market, this might be of
concern. You're not seeing dollar
strength. You're seeing dollar weakness.
Check it out in foreign exchange. Euro
dollar right now positive on the
session. The dollar, Lisa, weaker
[music]
against everything in G10.
>> Which is the reason why people are
saying that the sell-off in US assets is
something more [music] than simply an
issue having to do with Japan. Whether
it continues, whether it persists
remains to be seen. A lot of people
drawing parallels to April with
Liberation Day. I strong strong echo I
think of what happened last April.
Remember what happened next?
>> [music]
>> Market ripped, everything was okay.
Things are fantastic. Why won't sec
attack? Insulated by the warm embrace of
just significant tech spending over the
last 12 months.
>> Yeah, this to me is the story of the
United States and the optimism that
you're hearing from so many business
leaders here in Davos. Yes, people are
concerned about the geopolitics. Yes,
they're not sure where things are going
to go but yes, they are so excited about
artificial intelligence they think that
that will supersede absolutely
everything and keep demand underpinning
some of those flows into the US.
>> It's a big story at the World Economic
Forum. On the Savannahs this morning,
financing the AI boom.
We are safely and soundly
deregulating the banking and financial
system. According to Oliver Wyman,
we may have added 2.5 trillion in
lending capacity which will help finance
our AI boom. We are cutting back
regulation and that is leading to great
certainty for [music] businesses.
That was the Treasury Secretary Scott
Bassin speaking a little bit earlier.
Joining us now to extend the
conversation, Michael Kratsios, the
director of the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy. Michael,
good morning. Good to see you. Good to
see you guys.
>> Thanks for being here. We've got a lot
to talk about. Let's start with this.
The energy intensity of GDP growth feels
like it's changing really really
quickly. How do we need to adapt to
that? I think energy is a key driver of
everything that we're going to be doing
to drive this AI race. Um
the White House put out its AI action
plan in July of last year. It has three
pillars. One is innovation, one is
energy and one is international. So a
key pillar of the whole thing to work
out is how we can get enough energy in
the US built out and how we can build
these data centers quick enough to power
all the great solutions are going to
come to our industries in the years
ahead. You're tracking the numbers,
looking at the charts. When you look at
demand and supply, are constraints on
the horizon or are they avoidable?
We generally feel like the the industry
is finding a way to to push through it.
Um obviously the the regulatory
challenges associated with being able to
permit and build this stuff is in
everyone's mind. Um and I think you do
do you saw the president speak directly
to this issue on a Truth Social post
last Monday where he said, "Look, if you
want to build out all these data centers
to these data hyperscalers, you have to
find a way to make sure that the energy
prices for American consumers don't go
up." So the White House and president
are very cognizant of the of the
electricity issues but but we think we
can meet that met demand. A lot of
people say that the United States is
certainly ahead when it comes to chip
technology, when it comes to some of
these hyperscalers. China's ahead when
it comes to how much energy it has
available to use some of these
solutions. How long do you think it
would take for the US to really catch up
to where China is on the energy space?
You know, I don't necessarily see it as
Australia trying to catch up with energy
capacity of China but I think it's more
do we have the amount of energy that we
need to meet the demand in the US. And
up to now I think we're able to to kind
of meet that that demand and that
capacity and I think we're in a good
place. So you don't think that there's
any additional energy that needs to be
provided in order to meet the build out
that people expect coming down the the
pipeline. Oh, obviously we could always
build more electricity and drive more.
That's the whole agenda is around energy
abundance but I think we're at pacing it
and and creating the right regulatory
structure to to meet the ultimate
demand. Michael, there's a bill that
hasn't even gotten out of committee
that's getting a lot of attention when
it comes to Congressman Brian Mast bill
basically saying the US needs to
regulate, Congress needs to regulate
chips the same way they do arm sales.
Who should be regulating chip sales to
say adversaries like China? I don't have
any position on that bill. I haven't I
haven't read it but but I will say
currently Secretary Raimondo and the
team at at BIS is obviously on the hook
by statute to work through our export
control policy. When it comes to China
though, there has been a divide I would
say within the White House or robust
debate let's call it about how do you
deal with China? Do you sell them the
chips to get the world addicted to
American technology or do you need to
put stricter guardrails around it? Yeah,
the policy right now is to restrict the
top end chips from access by by the PRC.
So currently the Blackwells which are
the best chips on the on the market are
not available to China. The Rubin that's
going to come out uh later this year is
also going to be export controlled. Um
the change that many of you saw uh this
week was a new rule that went out for
the H200 which is one chip below the the
Blackwell. Um and those those sales are
allowed to China with with some uh some
restrictions. Can we cut through
narrative and facts? I'll describe the
narrative of the last 12 months. It was
around this week last year and the week
after there was a near obsession with
deep seek. And the story coming out of
that was that somehow China was far more
efficient at developing these things
compared to the US and that it was also
export compliant. And it was the export
compliant piece of this that got my
interest. As far as you're aware, are
the developments you're seeing out of
China export compliant or are they just
getting these chips somehow somewhere
into the country? Yeah, I think we've
come a long way since that since that
moment with deep seek and I think we've
what's shown over the last year is
continued American dominance in in
leading frontier models. That's
something that I think all of our big AI
companies are very proud of. The message
that we came to bring here to Davos is
all about the third pillar of the AI
action plan and that is how do we share
America's technology, our AI stack with
the world? We want everyone to be
building on American chips, fine-tuning
on American models and using American
applications. That's something that the
president developed in executive order
in July of last year and we'll full
steam ahead to make sure that anyone who
wants to build on AI has access to our
technology. On the flip side, there's a
real question and certainly we're here
in Europe. So in Europe they're thinking
about regulating because that's what
happens here about regulating and
overseeing some of the AI that's coming
out particularly when it comes to
sexualized images tied to Grok in
particular. How much is that on your
radar screen? How much do you can you
regulate while also allowing innovation
to really gain steam? We think about
that and take that issue very seriously.
I'm a new father myself and I think
about that issue every day when I work
through this this policy debate. The
president signed the Take It Down Act
which was supported by the First Lady
last year and it shows the seriousness
of the bipartisan seriousness of that we
take these these child imagery issues.
Um and I think for us I think it's
something that we're going to continue
to track and and make sure that that
we're protecting all of America's youth.
Do you know what the ultimate goal is
other than just to win? I mean the
people are talking about agentic AI but
they're also talking about the sort of
supreme intelligence that will render us
completely obsolete. I mean, does it
matter to you? Is that something that
the White House thinks about? To me, the
way I the way I think about winning the
AI race is about adoption. And that's
the biggest thing. You can have all
these leaderboards, Deep Seek maybe
somewhere on there. You have all of our
great models somewhere on there. But
who's at the top of the leaderboard
doesn't necessarily mean that you've
won. If no one is using that model, it
doesn't really matter. So for us, we
spend a lot of time thinking about how
can you accelerate the adoption of these
American models, not only in the US, but
around the world. That is why that third
pillar of our export strategy is so key.
When you look at a map around the world,
are you planning on data centers in
Greenland?
>> [laughter]
>> I'll leave that to to other people to
think about. Making yourself silly?
Well, I mean
I mean listen, if you read some of the
real, you know, people who are
saying
Hey? I don't know about obsolete. I
think it's going to be a technology
which is going to [laughter] really help
American people.
>> Less relevant. I mean, well, it's kind
of what people say. I mean, if you
listen to some of the you know, people
who are raised on science fiction who
clearly are creating some of this
technology. They need a flavor of that
underpinning some of You sound like
you're passionate about this. We've got
a week of this. Listen, you've got a
whole lifetime of this.
>> [laughter]
>> You're welcome.
>> Michael, it's good to see you. Thank
you, guys. Thank you very much. The
White House Science and Technology
Policy Director, Michael Kratsios there
on the opportunities in the AI AI space
and some of the fears out there
as well. Coming up on the program.
Coming up next, General Atlantic
Chairman, Martin Escobari, the former
House Speaker, Paul Ryan, Luminar
Technology CEO, Kevin Johnson and the
former IMF First Deputy Managing
Director, Gita Gopinath. Gita's going to
join us very, very shortly. We kick off
our coverage here in Davos, Switzerland
at the World Economic Forum with this
price action developing right here.
Equity futures selling off on the S&P
500 down by more than 1% on the Nasdaq
down by two percentage points. A
sell-off in the bond market, yields are
higher and a much weaker dollar. We'll
see if this sticks, but it's a main main
story for us this morning
>> [music]
>> in financial markets worldwide. From
Davos, Switzerland, you're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Growth has been resilient.
>> I'm not excessively concerned about
inflation right now.
>> Most of those inflationary pressures are
not as prevalent.
>> There's lots of challenges. There's a
variety of left tail items that have
certainly grown in stature.
>> Ultimately, the US is the most dynamic
economy and ultimately, that's where you
want to be invested.
>> Bloomberg Surveillance, live from Davos
with Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning, good morning for
our audience worldwide. The second hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
now. The main event is about 24 hours
away. The President of the United States
addressing the World Economic Forum. The
Europeans are very much on edge. The
bank CEOs are as well. There's a
different tone coming into this Davos,
Lisa, compared to 12 months ago.
>> There is a sense of unease and at the
same time that optimism still prevails
that there is going to be growth and
frankly, business leaders do not want to
talk about Greenland. We just
experimented with that and the
experiment went as expected. [music]
Honestly, there seems to be a feeling
that there is a bifurcation between
what's happening in the business world,
growth, deals, let's get business done
and what's happening in the geopolitical
realm, which is we are seeing a new
world order take place. How these come
together remains to be seen. Don't you
get the sense that business officials
kind of welcome this development here in
Davos, Switzerland that we can stop
pretending and just focus on business
and nothing else? This is the world's
biggest networking event. This is like
speed dating [music] for clients and
their different businesses. And
ultimately, there is a feeling that
there is no edifice. It isn't sort of
covered in this patina of
self-righteousness. It is about getting
deals done and that really is the
transactionality of Davos that has come
very much to the fore.
>> European officials would like to make
some deals as well, I'm sure on tariffs
and on Greenland. They are very much on
the back foot coming into this. The
President is being very transparent
about what they're communicating with
him. He's leaking their texts in real
time. This is actually happening
day-to-day, into today. "Absolutely, I
don't understand what you're doing with
Greenland," said Emmanuel Macron,
according to the text message he sent to
the President. And the French said,
"Yeah, that is true." And then he
subsequently invited him to have dinner
with him in Paris on Thursday. [music]
NATO Secretary General, the same thing.
Mark Rutte, text message released. So
the President is coming here with some
in Davos would call an immense
distraction from some of the work that's
already been done. These governments
have already struck a trade deal with
this administration. Do they need to
redo that all over again? And I need to
remind everyone, we still have a Supreme
Court decision coming out of the United
States potentially 10:00 a.m. New York
time today that might strike down those
IEPA tariffs.
>> It's sparked a sell-off in this equity
market. Check it out. Stocks are down,
bonds are down, yields are up, the
dollar's weaker. There's a real sell
America trade developing worldwide.
You'll soon notice this though. It's not
just about the US. I want to keep going
back to this. Japan. Japanese yields are
higher by 20 to 30 basis points at the
long end of the curve. That is something
you cannot ignore. That's a major move
coming out of Tokyo. Right now, you
cannot underestimate how much Japan, the
ballast of the entire world bond market,
is inserting volatility that we have not
seen for decades, if ever. Suddenly,
this area where all of these investors
in Japan needed to go to the places like
the United States for yield are seeing
almost 4% yields on 30-year JGB. So a
real question here about how much that's
reshaping the landscape for income
producing products and part of what's
going on in the US today.
>> Just to take a step back and look at the
global bond market. For much of our
careers, for many of you at home on
trading desks worldwide, Japan has been
an anchor around the global bond market
and yields forever, for decades. That's
been released. That's long gone. What
does this mean now for all the deals
we'll talk about this week that need to
be financed, [music]
all the proposals you might hear from
the President that need to be supported?
How much crowding out are we about to
see if Japan starts talking about
cutting interest rates, [music] cutting
taxes rather, and pushing the fiscal
pedal? It's a great point. We have easy
financing conditions because of just
this swath of liquidity around the
world. How much is Japan a part of that
story and how much is this a sign of
things to come because right now, the
populist policies that are driving the
snap election that Shinzo Abe is going
to have is something that is global, not
just a Japanese phenomenon. Packed
agenda this hour. We'll be catching up
with the General Atlantic's
Co-President, Martin Escobari, as
equities continue to pull back this
morning. We'll speak to the former House
Speaker and today Vice Chair, Paul Ryan.
And we'll catch up with the former IMF
First Managing Director, First Deputy
Managing Director, Gita Gopinath, a
little bit later this hour. We begin
this hour with stocks tumbling. General
Atlantic Co-President, Martin Escobari,
joins us now for more. Martin, good to
see you, sir. Great to be here. Thank
you for having me. Fantastic to catch up
with you. Something that Apollo, my
friend Jim Zelter, often tells me is
that public markets shape the narrative,
private markets power the economy. Let's
talk about private markets and the
opportunities that you see now relative
to 10 years ago, 15, 20 years ago. In
tech, they were asset light, they were
the great disruptors. You were early
investors in things like Uber, Airbnb.
Has that changed now, 10, 15, 20 years
later? The great tsunami that has lifted
all boats of growth equity is digital
transition. More of the world, more of
the companies are moving to a digital
world.
That trend that's 25 years in the making
turbocharged by AI. AI is having real
life impact, getting companies online,
getting people to transact online,
getting smart decisions being done
digitally. So that's the wave of today.
Growth equity also is benefiting
in the fact that we've had 3 years
without exits. A lot of stress in the
system, a lot of weaker GPs under a lot
of pressure to post DPI, putting some of
their best assets on sale. The
combination of these two trends, digital
acceleration, prices on sale, 2025 was
one of our strongest cohorts. Let's sit
on digital transformation and then we
can get to exits in a moment. To scale
revenue before, you didn't have to make
massive outlays into assets. The capex
over the last 12 months has been through
the roof. To scale revenue now, do you
have to invest a lot more in the
physical world?
Depends on your business model. We do
asset light. Most of the things we do
are relatively capital efficient. What
what what what has been asset heavy is
the development of these large language
models and the investments in capex for
AI, 1 and 1/2 trillion dollars. What's
interesting with AI and our approach to
it has been to be careful is that the
first killer use cases are finally
developing. AI for code gen is a 50
billion dollar revenue business that was
almost zero 2 and 1/2 years away.
Anthropic is a leader in that market,
about 60% market share. Those revenues
growing exponentially. And the good
thing about exponential it starts like
this, but eventually goes like this. It
The next wave of AI adoption will be, we
think, automating workflows of people
like us in the work in the in in sort of
Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint,
Excel being automated and that's going
to be a 20 times bigger. So we're in an
inflection point for AI and it's very
exciting to watch. So this is the
existential threat that I was talking
about.
This is a question though. Can you have
asset light models the way that you used
to? Or to John's point, are we seeing
asset heavy industry just by virtue of
what is necessary to really build out
AI?
It's hard to compete in the large
language model world asset light.
But you don't need to compete in that
world. You can be a user. Our portfolios
are using these large models to drive
efficiency. Our portfolio in the
software side to drive revenue. New
businesses are being created with this
technology. So I think the manufacturing
of AI, the raw compute cap intensive,
using an AI application asset light.
That's what we're investing. So you want
to talk about exits, let's talk about
exits. It has been a real desert for
monetizing some of the private equity
investments. How much do you expect that
to change over the next 6 to 12 months
and what gives you confidence?
We're we've come out of the winter of
exits. 3 years without exits have been
really really tough on the industry. But
the rumors of the death of the private
equity industry have been exaggerated.
2025 was already the second highest exit
year for our industry. 1.3 trillion
dollars were returned to our LPs. That's
80% of the peak of 2021. Our bet is this
year will will surpass 2021. IPO markets
are back, M&A markets are back, LPs are
getting liquidity back. The wheel of
private equity is turning again and it
couldn't come at a better time. Let's
talk about the global backdrop. A lot of
enthusiasm for America in the last 12
months. We spoke to many executives
about that. They've maintained that
optimism. Are you looking elsewhere?
We're the most global of the large
private equity shops. For the last 10
years our globality has been expensive
because nothing beat America.
The case for global diversification has
never been stronger.
You look at America today, 23 times
earnings the market as a whole. Europe,
50% discount. Emerging markets, 70%
discount. Fiscal house in order,
currencies appreciating. It for the
first time in our 45-year history, we
have more assets outside the United
States than we do in the US. We love the
US. It's just a little pricey. Let's buy
the rest of the world.
>> Martin Pimco said that they're
diversifying away as well from US
assets. They want to take this
multi-year approach because what they
call this administration being quite
unpredictable. Is that why you are
looking for this diversification? The
world has never been this unpredictable
from a policy perspective. What's the
one antidote to this level of
unpredictability? The only free lunch in
finance,
diversification. So yes, diversification
is a natural reaction to policy
uncertainty. Diplomatic finish to the
conversation, Martin. Good to see you.
Great to see you. Thanks for dropping
by. Thank you, sir. Martin Escobar there
of General Atlantic. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg Brief. Let's cross
over to Vanya Quinn for more. Hey,
Vanya. Hey, John. Thank you.
Top Iranian officials have called for a
leniency for some protesters [music]
arrested during the latest wave of
unrest. Human rights groups say around 3
and 1/2 thousand people have been killed
in the response to protests over
worsening living conditions.
European Commission President Ursula von
der Leyen calling President [music]
Trump's threat to impose more tariffs
over Greenland's support a mistake. In a
speech in Davos, von der Leyen said,
quote, [music] "A deal is a deal and his
threats to the EU violate their trade
deal."
Netflix reaching an adjusted all-cash
deal to buy Warner Brothers Discovery.
The new terms are meant to expedite a
sale as Netflix battles [music]
Paramount Skydance for the company.
Warner Brothers is expected to hold a
special meeting of shareholders to
approve the new Netflix [music] deal.
And that's your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Hey, Vanya. Thank you. More from Vanya
in about 30 minutes time. Let's head
back over to Bloomberg House where
Bloomberg's Emily Chang is sitting down
with the Signal Foundation President
Meredith Whittaker. Let's take a listen.
wrapping the models in hardware and
software
to really recognize how reckless it
would be to sort of deploy these things
in ways that undermine privacy and
security of things like Signal. And and
so this is why we're talking about it.
There are ways to do it better. I think
Anthropic is again a very good actor
here. But the stakes when you're talking
about the operating system couldn't be
higher because this is
And yet even before we get to agents,
you've got I mean so many of us are
dumping our deepest and darkest secrets
into ChatGPT and Gemini and Claude and
then we're becoming increasingly
comfortable
doing so. I'm curious, what are your AI
habits? Like what do you use? What do
you avoid?
I mean I occasionally I'll use ChatGPT
or Perplexity for research, but I always
check my sources. Right? Like these are
not
inherently accurate. I don't write with
AI. Like writing is a process of real
like intellectual interrogation for me
if it's serious. I do scholarship. I do
academic work. So I like to sit there
with that sort of, you know, Nietzschean
discomfort with ideas until I understand
something and then like I really
understand it. You can like pull a
string and I will I will know what I
think because I've had to struggle with
it and I think that's actually when I
think about AI and education, when I
think about what education is in terms
of training the human to engage with
complex realities and actually
synthesize that and come up with
conclusions that are responsible and
clear and intellectually stimulating,
like we cannot lose that capacity.
I think, you know, I I use it, you know,
we we have coding agents that people
use, but they are responsible for their
commit.
If that commit is insecure, if that if
that code doesn't work, they're
responsible for it. It's their fault. I
don't really care what they used. And
they had better be able to maintain that
code base. And this is an issue we don't
always talk about, right? If you're
spitting out a bunch of code, but you
don't understand it, it's going into
your repo, you're pushing that to
production, 2 years later there's a
vulnerability, there's something
and you don't understand that?
That's a huge issue because software is
living, right?
It is always is in relationship to a
complex set of dependencies, to the
platforms it runs on, to the tooling it
uses, all of which are changing
constantly, which means that even
software that has integrity one time may
actually grow out of integrity because
in relationship to another part of the
system it no longer works. And so, you
know, this is why you can't just sort of
ship something and have it work forever.
We have to pay teams of engineers to
attend to this constantly like a living
creature. And so I think this there's
there's these sort of things that are
just the reality if you work in tech
that get abstracted away in the promise
of sort of, you know, seamless ease and
autonomy that is often part of the
marketing hype around AI.
You left Google in 2019 after leading
protests around AI around military
contracts. Um what do you think of the
tech industry's pendulum swing under the
Trump administration? I want to
characterize that a bit more
specifically. I think, you know,
ultimately we I'm I'm a student of
history.
And centralized surveillance power,
centralized control is never that
healthy and my concern was that you had
companies that had so much incredibly
intimate information about global
populations
that were also going to be aligned with
one or another nation-state's military.
And it was me and thousands and
thousands of people, right? Because
structurally that is something that is
not healthy. And I'll just put that out
there. Again, I get to be honest, I
know.
talking.
>> [laughter]
>> But it, you know, we we we can look back
through history. We've never This is
what it is unprecedented now here is the
amount of information, the seamlessness
of that information and the ability to
sort of mine and use that information.
And we know that, you know, state
control is very or centralized control,
authoritarian control is largely
constituted via information asymmetries
like that. The ability to repress and
fracture social and economic bonds by
weaponizing, you know, your most
intimate information. What would you not
do
in order to prevent every single text
[music] message you've ever written to
everyone
being put in a database and sent to
everyone you know, your in-laws, your
church.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Equity selling off across the board so
far this morning. Check it out on the
S&P 500 down around 1.5% on the Nasdaq
through [music] much of the session so
far down around 2%. Slowly slowly
peeling off the lows. Check out the bond
market. Switch out the board. Yields up
across the curve particularly at the
long end. 10s [music] and 30s being
dragged higher by also what's developing
over in Japan and we can talk about that
a little bit later on. But it's this
move here. Just compare the move in
foreign exchange to the move in the bond
market. Typically yields up
traditionally would mean a stronger
currency. Over the last year when we've
had these kind of bouts of risk
aversion, we saw it [music] really
concentrated last April. We've seen a
dollar this weaker and a bond market
that sells off and then you start to
wake up to headlines about the sell
America trade making a comeback.
>> Especially when paired with gold
absolutely surging and you see all of
the precious metals really doing very
well. At the same time, there is a
question of how sustainable this is
ultimately going to be and the question
that you were making earlier, the point
you were making. At what point does the
bond [music] market force the hand of
policy makers, act as a check of some of
what's coming out of the White House?
>> Some people argued last year in April
following those liberation day tariffs
that if you were looking for guardrails
for the president, for this
administration, for the Treasury
Secretary, the North Star was the bond
market.
>> Absolutely. I was on Air Force One with
the president right before he reversed
course and really kind of unleashed on
me when I asked him, "Does the Trump put
even exist anymore?" He said, "Sometimes
the economy needs medicine." That was
tariffs. But at the end of the day, the
bond market got too yippy for him and he
decided, "These are not rules of the
road. These are engagements. These are
negotiations." So now is he coming in
with this fresh tariff deja vu of April
2nd. The Treasury Secretary says it's
hysteria. Everyone take a breath. Take a
step back. Maybe it's time for new
negotiations.
>> The President of the United States
addressing the World Economic Forum
tomorrow. Full coverage right here on
Bloomberg Surveillance. Under
Surveillance this morning, the trade war
making a comeback.
I don't think they're going to push back
too much. Look,
we have to have it. They have to have
this done. They can't protect it. NATO's
been warning
uh Denmark for about 20 years now,
longer than that, 25 years. They've been
warning Denmark about the Russian
threat. And it's not only Russia, it's
also China. So we'll see what happens,
but uh
let's put it this way. It's going to be
a very interesting Davos.
That was the President of the United
States. Joining us now in Davos,
Switzerland, Paul Ryan, the former House
Speaker and now Teneo vice chair.
Speaker Ryan, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Good morning. Nice to see you. I had
this question planned for a while. Does
your party now have more in common with
Senator Bernie Sanders than the 114th
and 115th Congress that you oversaw?
>> Apparently in economics maybe the case
is right. On on tariffs and on interest
rate caps and things like that, perhaps.
I'm a conservative. This is not
conservative economics.
>> Is there space for that in your party
now? Yeah, there is. It's We're Our
party is a big tent party. It's got a
lot of different factions. The dominant
faction right now is more of an economic
populist faction. That's the president's
faction. That's MAGA.
I'm I'm a conservative. I'm in the
minority of my own party, but that
happens. When John's talking about
having this relationship, say the MAGA
wing with Bernie Sanders, we're seeing
that with a ton of issues the
president's talking about. That the
defense sector shouldn't have dividends
or buybacks. Credit card interest rate
caps, Bernie Sanders literally wrote the
bill. How do individuals in the minority
of the Republican Party right now make
their voices heard?
>> This is populism, but it's populism
tethered to whatever people think is
popular, not tethered to sort certain
core principles like liberty, freedom,
free enterprise, private property
rights, etc., etc. So, my wing of the
party, which is the classical liberal
conservative wing, the free market wing
of the party, is in the minority, and we
just have to make our case for why we
believe what we believe and why we think
people are better off at the end of the
day. The challenge is it's hard to
defeat populism in soundbites and
emotion, and that's what can win the
day, but it doesn't win the issue. It
doesn't actually deliver the results.
So, at the end of the day, I think
results are what matter, and I think
people, voters, vote for results. If
they're going to vote for populism that
that that that speaks to their concerns
and their grievances and their and their
and their frustrations, that's one
thing, but if that populism doesn't
deliver policies that actually solve
problems, then they're going to look
elsewhere, and hopefully we can have a
better discussion about what actually
works. What principles that built our
country, that make our economy strong?
It's our private property rights, our
deep liquid capital markets, our rule of
law. That's why America is America.
That's why we've done so well. We have
to defend those principles, even if
those principles aren't that popular.
You're a free market individual. This
administration is taking equity stakes
in companies. Is that state capitalism
the way the Chinese do it or say like
the Europeans in the '70s?
>> Yeah, it's more of a European. It's more
It's more Japanese. It's more Europeans.
It's It's not Chinese. It's It's not
what It's not what conservatives are
for. We don't believe in doing that.
But, this is more industrial policy,
less less communist dictatorship. It's
very different. Your role right now is
to advise companies, and you're coming
at a time where companies have no clue
what's going on at the White House or
what might come out of it. What do you
tell them? Yeah, I mean, we just did a
survey actually of 750 CEOs that Teneo
just did, and frankly a lot of them are
pretty optimistic about M&A. They're
optimistic about economic growth.
What Where they're uncertain is tariffs.
So, there's they have to plan for
resiliency. They're basically building
building resilient systems because they
don't know what's going to happen on
tariffs. I actually think, and I hope,
that the Supreme Court may take away the
IEEPA authority. I don't I I don't think
that law was written for tariffs. It's a
sanctions law. We'll find out and maybe
even later today. I don't know when the
court's going to rule. But, that's a
tool the president's been using far
beyond Congress's intent in my That's my
opinion.
But, if if that happens, then he'll have
to go to other trade laws that aren't as
easy to use like the IEEPA laws have
been used. And so, that takes away some
uncertainty. But, there We're going to
have trade uncertainty, tariff
uncertainty. But, there there's good
regulatory posture. We have good tax
policy. There's going to be a lot of
M&A. So, I think there's it's We're
driving the car with two feet. We got
one foot on the gas, one foot on the
brake, and that's that's what that's
what CEOs are trying to plan for. How do
How do they respond? How do they seize
the opportunities and plan for the
uncertainties?
>> We just had the head of General Atlantic
on who said that resilience to him means
diversifying, and it means diversifying
away from the United States.
This is the what if scenario in the
meantime businesses have to plan. How
much of the people you're talking to
moving capital flows outside of the US
in a way that concerns you? I worry
about that. I worry more frankly about a
long-term debt posture and the fact that
we're not doing anything to deal with
our debt, which means our dollar. So, I
think there are things that are that are
good that are happening. Say stablecoins
being deployed. That's good for the
dollar. If we got our fiscal house in
order, that'd be great for the dollar,
but I don't see the populist politics
lending itself to doing those things.
But, we do have the best economy in the
world. We have the deepest, most liquid
capital markets. So, I still think we're
going to be there. We have better
regulations than what we had in the last
administration. We have good tax policy.
But, there's a lot of uncertainty. So,
yeah, it bothers me when I hear
companies feel they need to diversify
away from America because of the
uncertainty. But, if we get this
uncertainty dealt with, if if the
uncertainty tamps down, then I think
we'll be back in business. So, overall,
I think we're going to be okay at the
end of the day. I think our institutions
stick. Can we finish on the debt market?
You took us there. This is a sign-off in
today's session.
>> John, look, 4:30 on a 10-year bond yield
is not a crisis. I'm not going to
pretend it is.
But, the direction of travel is just to
push more and push more, and it's not
just America anymore. Maybe Japan is
leaning in the same direction, and
they'll loosen things up as well. What
do you think we're building up to?
What I worry about are auction failures.
It would they won't technically
be a failure because they'll make the
primary dealers buy the paper, but I
worry if if if if we see that an auction
would have failed, that what the spiking
yields will look like, and then what
that does to our fiscal policy. So, if
we could get ahead of our fiscal policy
problems by reforming our entitlement
programs prospectively for the next
generation on down, I think we could
calm the bond markets down, and we could
be the flight to quality again. We're
not there, and our politics aren't there
yet. So, because that's not anywhere
near being politically viable, you have
these kinds of things. Then you have all
these tariff uncertainty, all the things
that are happening there that are going
to spook the markets. I don't know if
this is a Japan story today or if it's a
Denmark. I don't know what this is
about, but if we had our fiscal house in
order, I don't think you'd see these
kinds of shocks.
>> There's no flight to quality this
morning. That's for sure. Speaker Ryan,
it's good to see you. Good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Thank you. That
was the former House Speaker and current
Teneo vice chair, Paul Ryan. Waking on
the debt market at the end, Lisa. Look,
yields are up. It's not a crisis at
4:30. That's not a problem. Let's not
pretend it is, but the direction of
travel, we shouldn't pretend it's a good
one either.
>> Yeah, and if I were going to be
reincarnated as anything, it would be
the bond market, right? Is that in the
words of a sage, given that a lot of
people are worried that it could get out
[music] of control and actually shape
policy itself.
>> Coming up next on the program, we'll
catch up with the Lumen Technologies
president and CEO, Kate Johnson.
>> [music]
>> Live from Davos, Switzerland at the
World Economic Forum. It's day one for
the team here at Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning to you all. Day one for you
stateside as well after a long weekend.
Check this out. Waking up to this in the
equity market, down and down hard on the
S&P, the Nasdaq, the Russell. On the
Nasdaq 100 so far this session, we're
down by close to 2%. Things are slowly
getting better on the S&P 500 sub 1.4%.
In the bond market, bond yields higher,
particularly at the long end of the
curve, 10s and 30s. The 2-year bond
yield quite anchored right now. You're
seeing yields bleed higher by something
like five, six basis points on 10s. The
move much, much bigger in Japan. But, as
we keep going back to this story, it's
the move in the bond market accompanied
with the move in foreign exchange that
gets your attention, and it's a similar
story. We saw this movie before. We saw
it almost 9 months ago, 9, 10 months
ago, last April, when we saw that dollar
[music] weakness together with bonds
selling off. That sell America trade
just making a little bit of a comeback.
I've got no idea if it sticks, but
that's certainly what we're seeing so
far this morning.
>> And you're also seeing a similar kind of
flavor when you look at the precious
metals. I will note that as US hours
begin and people come into their
offices, the move is tempering, and I
think that that's interesting because
that typically is a trend that we see.
People come in, they're buying the dip.
So, the day is young, but that is
something to keep watching.
>> Well, the president did send out his
soother-in-chief to the markets. He
called it Scott Bessent who said, "This
is hysteria of April 2nd." And what did
we learn on April 2nd? It was a
negotiating tactic, and Trump ended up
having negotiations and deals, and
wasn't the high tariff rates that he
first promised.
>> Just for the record, are you suggesting
the Europeans are a little bit more
emotional about this issue?
I [laughter]
You know,
actually Well, they are. If you look at
the text messages When you take a look
at the text messages and frankly in
private conversations you have here, it
is deeply emotional, and it is deeply
emotional for fund managers as well. So,
I will just stay on the record, yes.
>> We'll see if this dip gets bought a
little bit later in the session as we
count you down to the opening bell.
Let's cross over to Danny Burger for
your morning movers. Say Danny. Hey,
John. Some earnings to get through this
morning. 3M selling off and selling off
hard after reporting down 4.6%. [music]
I got to say their their earnings were
fine. They beat on most metrics. They
also said that they're going to grow
both sales and profitability. The one
sore spot was their [music] consumer
business. That continues to decline and
has had a couple of consecutive quarters
of that. Maybe it's also just getting
caught up in the broader sell-off. So,
3M, again, down 4.6%.
Rallying this morning, and again, maybe
this is another head-scratcher, is DR
Horton because their earnings did miss.
The home builder less sales than
expected, even though mortgage rates
came down. The CEO on their earnings
call did say that this is issue of
affordability that is still keeping home
buyers on the sidelines. So, shares
initially sold off, and now they are up.
Those shares up 2.9% in [music] the
premarket. This one is very clear why it
is moving. It is Critical Metals. This
is a company whose main flagship mining
project is in Greenland. This is a
company that tends to rally whenever
there are more nerves about Greenland,
whenever the conversation gets more real
about the president's ambitions to have
the country. So, those shares up 9.5%
with President Trump trying to make
moves there at Davos [music] around
Greenland, John.
Danny, thank you. More from Danny in
about 60 minutes time. Let's turn back
to tech. AI driving significant data
movement, boosting partnerships between
hyperscalers and energy providers. Kate
Johnson, the president CEO of Lumen
Technologies, a telecommunications
company that provides high capacity
fiber networks, joins us now for more.
Kate, good morning. Good to see Good
morning. How are you?
>> drop in by. I'm fantastic. Let's talk
about your company. What are we
transitioning from to? Are we no longer
just a telco's company? What are we
developing into? We're going from legacy
telecom, which is point-to-point analog
solutions to move data, to a digital
network services company that provides
AI-ready solutions. So, the big problem
is huge swath of data needs to go
everywhere, compute and storage spread
everywhere, users spread everywhere. You
got to get the data to and from the
models and to and from the people to
drive insight, and you need fiber
connectivity to do that, and that's what
we do. That's what you do right now.
Have you had to change and adapt the
business to meet this moment?
>> Massive transformation across a couple
of different levels. The first is
expansion at the physical level, and
that's what you've seen in the papers.
We're doing deals with hyperscalers to
interconnect clouds and data centers.
Largest expansion of the internet at
large in in history.
The second piece of it is digitizing
everything. You know, when cloud came
around, it digitized compute and network
and storage, and nobody touched network.
It kind of just stayed static. And what
we're doing is we're programmatizing or
making the network programmable just
like compute and storage are, so that
you can be agile as an enterprise using
AI. Fire up my network, fire down my
network, depending on how much data I
have. It's cost-intensive to do this,
and you work with a number of different
partners. There have been some
high-profile partnerships, including the
latest being Palantir. What are you
looking for when deciding who you want
to partner with? So, basically, any
technology company runs on compute,
storage, and network. So, we work with
all of them. And what we do is we tailor
our network solutions to be sold right
with that technology cloud solution, so
that enterprises no longer have to go to
two separate places. They can buy
whatever solution they're looking to
transform and drive business outcomes,
and they can get an AI-ready network
embedded in it. That's how Lumen's
providing value to the technology
ecosystem. How do you keep staying
power? Because this is a very quickly
evolving technology, and some people are
worried that things like neo clouds or
some of these other developments are
sort of glorified real estate plays or
you know, are potentially going to be
stranded assets when the technology
changes or there's less need for that
level of compute. How do you avoid
getting left with that kind of excess
capacity? The really cool thing about
networking is it's relevant to both
sides of the construction of the AI
economy, the production side and the
consumption side. So, the production
side is all the capex you're hearing
about, people building, you know, the
technology companies building
infrastructure to supply AI solutions.
They're connecting all these data
centers to do their models and and start
training them, right? But there's the
consumption side. That's digital, right?
And that's the digital platform that
we're building to make it easy to
consume. So, we're relevant to the
production side cuz we connect the data
centers. We're also relevant to the the
diffusion side of AI because we help
enterprises take advantage of those
models. So, our staying power is is
quite impressive, actually. As you make
this transition, are your hiring
decisions different? Do you have to
sacrifice also anything? I So, it's a
great question. The transformation of
our workforce is is going to be pretty
significant, just like every other
company on Earth. We're importing AI
skills. We're training and upskilling
our existing workforce, and we're also
trying to figure out how to shapeshift,
how to invest in places where we haven't
in the past. Do you think this is a
global story for telecoms?
So, I think it's it's a story for
telecom
in in two parts. One is most telecoms
are still focused on analog provisioning
of services. They're stuck in the old
physical network, and they're not
investing in the digital platform. Any
telco that recognizes that crown jewel
asset of the fiber network and builds a
digital platform on top of it is
relevant to this story. In capex booms,
mistakes are made. Can we talk about how
quickly this is moving? We've seen some
estimates that in the last 12 months in
the US, 40% of the GDP growth has come
from tech capex. It was mid-single
digits only a few years ago. Things have
changed that quickly. How do you
approach something moving that fast and
maintain discipline? Look, if you if
you're asking me if there's an AI
bubble, I think I'm not there yet.
That's the next [laughter] one. Okay.
Okay. So, I I beat you to the punch. She
went straight through that one. Bubbles
are all about
asymmetry between supply and demand. And
what you're seeing is the construction
of the supply side of the AI economy. By
the way, that's going to take several
decades because you got the power, you
got the chips, you know, you you got the
networking that all needs to be
constructed. It's going to be about
diffusion, and diffusion or the
consumption of it, the supply side, is
really dependent on skill sets,
mindsets, data sets, change management.
There are a lot of different factors
associated with the diffusion, and
that's what we're talking about here at
Davos. How big is the appetite right now
for the likes of Palantir or Microsoft,
your former employer,
to keep investing in the fiber and some
of these highly capital-intensive
assets that they've already poured
billions of dollars into? So, they've
poured billions of dollars into a lot of
different kinds of assets, and they all
need to be connected. It's critical
infrastructure. You cannot run AI
without it. AI needs data, data needs
data centers or compute, and those that
compute layer needs to be connected.
So, we're actually quite close with
them, and we're constructing ideas for
how we bring more value to the story.
That digital platform, we've integrated
it natively into our fiber optic layer.
And what that means is we can provide
new capability, new performance, new
speed. It's more secure than anything
they've ever worked with before, and
we're collaborating and doing so. So,
who's your next collaboration? What's
your What do you have your eyes on?
That's for me to know.
>> [laughter]
>> And for me to ask about.
Exactly. We're working with a number of
technology companies to bring integrated
solutions, AI-ready solutions to their
customers to accelerate their time to
market and their time to value. And so,
see more for detail. Watch this space.
Are we making announcements this week?
Not too soon?
Well, we're in quite period for
earnings. All right. Okay. We'll wait.
Kate, thank you. It's good to see you.
Thank you. Kate Johnson there.
Wonderful. Fantastic to catch up with
the Lumen Technologies president and
CEO. Tried to sneak in a little bit of a
bubble question. I think Kate's a bit
too sharp for that. She was like, all
right. I know what you're asking. You're
going to say is there a bubble? The
answer is no. a thousand different
flavors of bubble over the last 12
months, I'm sure.
Let's get you an update on news
elsewhere. For your top stories, your
Bloomberg Brief, here's Vanya Kwong.
Hey, Vanya. Hey, John. Thank you. Taiwan
says China sent a military drone into
its airspace for the first time. Taipei
says the reconnaissance drone was in the
airspace for about 4 minutes early
Saturday above the range of air defense
weapons. It comes as Taiwan's defense
ministry says it wants to acquire an
extra 200,000 [music]
drones and 1,000 unmanned vessels using
a special military budget.
President Trump threatening to impose a
200% tariff on French wines and
champagne. [music]
President taking aim at French President
Emmanuel Macron after he rejected an
invitation to back Trump's [music]
latest peace initiative in Gaza.
President Trump publishing a text
message from his French counterpart in
which Macron invited Trump [music] to to
have dinner in Paris Thursday.
BlackRock's Rick Reader making the short
list to replace Fed Chair Jay Powell.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
President Trump's interview with Reader
last week went well. The search is now a
four-man [music] race again. Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessent saying the
president could announce his pick as
soon as next week. And that is your
Bloomberg Brief, John.
Vanya, thank you. Very cool. Thanks for
the update. More from Vanya in about 30
minutes. And next on the program,
building around tariff uncertainty.
Frankly, a lot of them are pretty
optimistic about M&A. They're optimistic
about economic growth. What [music]
Where they're uncertain is tariffs. So,
there's they have to plan for
resiliency. They're basically building
building resilient systems because they
don't know what's going to happen on
tariffs.
Live from Davos, Switzerland. Lisa's
been talking about this for the last
couple of hours. She mentioned the
Europeans being overly emotional about
the price action
>> Okay. the Americans would wake up, step
in, and buy. I didn't say overly. That's
what's happening. On the S&P 500, we
recovered just a little bit. We're down
by 1.4%. On the Nasdaq, down by 1.6. But
the story, in many ways, remains the
same. Sell-off in the bond market,
dollar's weaker, sell-off at the back
end of the curve, 10s and 30s, bond
yields higher. Can see them higher by
six basis points, up around eight on
30s. The move in Japan, phenomenal.
We're talking about a 20 to 30 basis
point move at the long end of the
Japanese curve. We'll save some time for
that in the next hour. Check out foreign
exchange, though. Dollar weaker against
everything in G10, and that's [music]
what got my attention first thing this
morning. I was expecting the risk
aversion. You all were. Would we get a
flight to safety in the bond market? No.
Treasuries sold. Would we see anything
in foreign exchange that supports the US
dollar? No. The dollar sold. Smells like
April, looks like April. Will it stick?
And that really is the key question.
Will it stick? And overly, remains to be
seen because that might ultimately be
the right vote, but right now it does
seem like when people come into the US
hours, I'm getting messages saying it's
not at all about Greenland, it's about
[music] what's going on in Japan, it's
about potentially Taiwan, etc. At the
same time, there is a flavor of what we
heard last April. [music] Also,
potentially on Friday, the president
told Kevin Hassett, "I love you so much
on TV. I might need to keep you where we
are." And we actually saw movement in
the bond market. Potentially, investors
are thinking of a more credible
candidate, or they're pricing in a
hawkish candidate like the other Kevin.
>> hawkish Kevin Walsh perhaps. Something
that we can discuss in the next hour as
well. In the next week we might actually
find out who the next Fed chair is. I
mean two weeks. We've been waiting for
what? I mean it was one point now maybe
next week. I just told you I just told
in April it was going to be the fall.
And now we are sitting here in Davos in
January and we still don't know the Fed
chair pick.
>> Sitting here in Davos obsessed with
tariffs once [music] again. And this is
what I meant this morning building
around tariff uncertainty.
Frankly a lot of them are pretty
optimistic about M&A. They're optimistic
about economic growth. What where
they're uncertain is tariffs. So there's
they have to plan for resiliency.
They're basically building building
resilient systems because they don't
know what's going to happen on tariffs.
I actually think and I hope that the
Supreme Court may take away the IEPA
authority.
That was a former House Speaker and
current to now Vice Chair Paul Ryan.
Joining us now Gita Gopinath the Harvard
University Professor of Economics and
the former IMF First Deputy Managing
Director. Gita good to see you. Great to
join you. Thanks for being here. You've
penned a fantastic piece recently about
how much has changed because I think
there's a temptation to sit here to look
at what markets did over the last 12
months. The amount of business
investment we've seen particularly
directed at America and say nothing's
changed. How much has changed?
I think everything has changed for the
global economy. Now if you look at the
headline numbers which in terms of
global growth you would say 3.3% is what
was projected for this year 3.2% last
year. You'd think well well nothing
really changed. And I don't like the
word resilience being thrown around
because it's not as if countries were
able to deal with tariffs and not get
affected by it.
Tariffs did have a negative effect. It
was a headwind even for the US economy.
It just got offset by a lot of positives
including AI including special fiscal
policy. So let's not mix the underlying
changes that are happening which will
show up over time. It will take time.
Though we're seeing new developments and
maybe it'll be faster than we think. But
let's see. When you say they'll show up
over time in what ways will they
materialize? So firstly I think the
uncertainty is actually consequential
and that takes time. You know after
Brexit the first two years after Brexit
investment actually went up and
everybody thought well this is we're
making a big fuss about nothing. And
then slowly investment slowed down and
then 10 years later it looks really bad.
I'm not saying that's the exact effect
that's going to happen on the US because
it's a much more closed economy relative
to the UK. But those effects are going
to play out over time. Interest rates
are
you know I haven't checked the recent
most recent numbers but until yesterday
they seem very squeezed in terms of the
spreads that we're seeing everywhere.
Financial conditions look really easy.
It seemed like there was only one way to
go up in terms of financial conditions
which is a tightening. And I think you
just mentioned before we started that we
are seeing that. Yeah we're seeing that
when it comes to Japan. In the US though
there is a hope that there is going to
be this rate cutting cycle that will
continue amid the growth. Do you think
that that's misplaced or that that could
come at the consequence of what we're
seeing right now in the dollar? I think
that we have a risk that we may be
underestimating what inflation could do
in 2026. On the one hand yes because
there's been a productivity you know
positive productivity growth that helps
with inflation. But given the fiscal
stimulus that's there that's coming out
right now continued spending on AI
tariff effect that still has to play
through the dollar weakening all of that
could generate inflation going up. Now
what does that mean? I think regardless
of what the central bank position is
going to be the long end of the yield
curve will go up because either they
raise interest rates and that causes the
long end to go up or you think this is
too dovish a central bank inflation is
going to be high that causes the long
end to go up. So I think that's the risk
that hasn't truly been I feel been
priced in fully. Is a move at the long
end of the yield curve in the United
States more a function in your view of
what's happening globally and the fact
that Japan as you know I was mentioning
used to be
sort of the peg that was the base for
for the entirety of the bond market or
do you think that this truly is a
consequence of some of the policies
coming out of Washington? So firstly I
will agree that Japan is very
consequential. If interest rates are
going up in Japan
you know given the carry trade that
exists
it has spillover to all markets
including the US. But I do think what's
happening in in the US market is also
driven by US policies. The
you know the administration is aware of
that which is why as you can see they've
shifted the supply to the short end of
the yield curve as opposed to the long
end. One of the reasons we haven't seen
as much of an increase in interest rates
at the long end is because they're
really supplying now at the short end.
If interest rates have to go up because
of inflation that's just going to worsen
the fiscal situation and then push up
the long end again. The dynamic you
described Gita is precisely why we're
seeing the dollar weakness that is
materializing and developing before our
eyes. You see it right now this morning
Lisa weaker against everything against
the major currencies in G10. Yeah it's
the reason why you've seen such a bid
into gold which raises the question you
how much further can this go and are we
seeing a real devaluation that goes well
beyond even in the currency cross of the
euro dollar? None of it matters. We've
got the warm embrace of big tech. You
wrote about that recently too I believe
in the Economist. Can we breathe some
life into that article once again? There
is a sense of comfort in America because
of the amount of spending a handful of
companies are doing. Do you think we're
becoming too dependent on that and that
concentration risk is that something we
need to appreciate a little bit more
this year? Yeah. So when I wrote about
this in October it was early October. At
that time I said about 35 trillion
dollars of wealth could be
eliminated if we had a dot-com style
correction.
Since that article and towards the end
of October I do think investors have
become much more discerning. You know
Meta got penalized even though they had
better than expected earnings but they
said they were going to spend a whole
lot on AI without being clear about
where the revenues would come from it.
So I actually think markets have become
more discerning. But that said I still
see a bit of inconsistency between
valuations of all these companies not
just those on the market but also off
the market and the possibility of
earning all of them earning back large
profits. I just don't that's a bit of an
inherent
consistency.
>> most fragile part of financial markets
right now the AI trade?
I would say that is certainly one of the
most fragile parts. The other one is on
the bond market side. I think there it's
it's been too comfortable there. Does it
give you at least some optimism that
when it comes to AI you see at least in
the United States a tremendous amount of
fiscal backing for this these kind of
build-outs? The support for it in terms
of you know incentivizing investment is
great. I don't think the problem in AI
is underinvestment.
There's plenty of investment [laughter]
happening. So they don't need any more
incentive. I I I
I'm sure that AI will be transformative.
Productivity I think will go up for
sure. I just whether that translates
into profits in this hypercompetitive
environment is what I'm questioning. And
this is one of the reasons why people
keep talking about the race between the
US and China regarding AI to be unique
because in the US it's all about coming
up with the hyperscalers and building
out the infrastructure. In China it's
more about the software it's more about
the deployment it's more about the
energy creation. Do you see in general
China getting an upper hand when it
comes to attracting flows and some of
its output and how it will be used in
the rest of the world? Uh firstly I
think China is doing a lot more on
energy which is it's just building out a
huge amount of energy so that it can
support its AI business. You're right
they're more focused on applications as
opposed to foundation models. But that
said I mean we saw Deep Seek. So to my
point about the ability of all these
firms to earn the kinds of profits they
do it's not just competition from within
the US but it's also competition from
China. We're going to spend some time
together I believe talking about some of
these issues. I also want to talk about
what's happening with the disconnect. I
think this year coming from 25 into 26
is defined by a massive disconnect.
You've talked about an equity market
being at an all-time high credit spreads
are super tight. That despite the chaos
around us. Headline risk super elevated.
One thing that's dominated this program
for the last 12 months is the fact that
payroll growth has been very muted and
earnings have been very high and it
feels like that spread is going to have
to reconcile some way or another and
maybe politicians might force the issue.
When the president addresses this forum
tomorrow yes it's going to be about
trade and some geopolitics but it also
be about affordability. Do you think
that the status quo can persist the
disconnect that we just described? There
was a great deal of unhappiness with
affordability everywhere in the world
and you see that in the US too. And
tariffs have played an important role.
About half to a 0.7% each point of
inflation is coming from the tariffs. So
they have
had an impact even though US firms have
absorbed it. I think we should all
recognize and I did research on that
last year which is to say that the costs
of the tariffs have been borne by
American firms. Some of that has been
passed through to US consumers. We
haven't seen manufacturing jobs come up.
In fact manufacturing jobs have been
lost and US stock markets did okay but
they did worse than Europe and other
emerging markets did. So it is negative
in on many dimensions. Just lastly you
are no longer a part of the IMF.
[snorts] What is the role of the IMF in
some of these global organizations at a
time like this? I mean the foremost role
of the IMF is to be the lender of last
resort.
We I see enough risks on the horizon
that for them delivering on that role is
going to be critical. The other aspect
is surveillance
which they'll have to do for all parts
of the world. Of course I think they're
they're going to be a little more
guarded in terms of what they actually
say. But both these roles are absolutely
important.
>> Why do you think we have to be so
guarded in this environment? Why can't
we be explicit and just speak truth to
power? Well I think what is it called
strategic patience? That's what
everybody talks around. Yes.
>> [laughter]
>> Gita it's good to see you. We'll catch
up tomorrow. Gita Gopinath there the
former IMF First Deputy Managing
Director on the situation dominating
global markets and the economy. And
there is a disconnect. We talked about
it throughout the whole of last year. Is
it a disconnect that needs to be
reconciled this year? Right now we're
seeing it get reconciled on a political
level at least with rhetoric coming out
of everywhere and we're seeing that in
Japan. One reason why people keep
watching the bond market to reconcile
these two is going to take money and
that's something that increasingly is in
focus.
>> Coming up next, the third annual
Bloomberg Surveillance will catch up
with the IBM vice chairman Gary Cohn,
Southern Company CEO Chris Womack,
Coreweave CEO Michael Intrator and the
president of Finland Alexander [music]
Stubb. It's stacked hour just around the
corner.
>> [music]
>> This year we think it's a story about
broadening. We're in a period where
investors can have more confidence. The
key issue here is really on the risky
asset side.
>> There's just more vulnerability on the
volatility side.
>> We want to stick with earnings which we
think are going to be the driver of
equity markets over the course of this
year. Bloomberg Surveillance live from
Davos with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz and Anne Marie Hoerdern.
Live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. The third annual
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action looks like this.
Check it out. Equities down across the
board recovering slightly on the S&P, on
the Nasdaq. The sell-off in the bond
market though, it's the sell America
trade making a comeback. Yields are up
and the dollar is weaker. This is what
we saw play out last April. It didn't
stick too long. Let's see if it changes
but that's the story so far this [music]
morning. It's about trade and the
relationship between America and the
continent. There's a little bit of Japan
playing out in this story as well. We'll
breathe some life into that over the
next hour. You'll see it in Japanese
yields much, much higher at the long end
of the curve but the main event at the
World Economic Forum is about a day
away. 24 hours out. 2:30 local time the
president of the United States
addressing this forum and markets, not
just European politicians, slightly on
edge.
>> Yeah, slightly on edge especially
because of what we've heard over the
past 48 hours with the potential to
increase tariffs substantially on Europe
not to mention 200% tariffs on French
champagne. A real concern here about
what we're renegotiating, whether the
tariff peak tariff uncertainty [music]
really is behind us when once again this
is being used as a tool over what?
Greenland. [music] Again, if this was on
your bingo card will you deserve to get
a check for a lot of money that
Greenland would be the focus of this
Davos.
>> President Macron not popular in the
White House at the moment it seems, at
least for the moment.
>> Not popular because the president is
leaking private text messages between
Emmanuel Macron and President Trump and
Macron really trying to say I really
like what you've done in Syria. We've
had so much collaboration but I don't
understand what's going on when it comes
to Greenland and Greenland has really
become this huge distraction and almost
an existential crisis for the Europeans
but I think those individuals that are
constructive around the president a
distraction as they try to negotiate
other deals [music] right here in Davos.
>> We're all trying to figure out what's
going on. Let's take a step back and
think about the president's first term.
Whether you like tariffs or not, there
was a well-articulated argument about a
lack of reciprocity in a place like
China and that justified why they went
forward with the tariffs they went
forward with. Coming into the second
term, tariffs are being used for a whole
range of things including revenue,
including geopolitics. It just feels
like Lisa that is a massive change
compared to what we saw [music] eight
years ago and when you look at things
that way, it's difficult to get your
hands around the clear ideology that
helps you predict [music] the moment,
helps you forecast, helps you price it
in financial markets when things can
change from one week into the next so
drastically. It's a great point
especially because the the legitimacy of
the tariffs before was part of the
negotiations that led to a deal with
Europe that a lot of people didn't like.
This time around a lot of European
leaders are saying this is a red line
because we don't understand how far you
can go, at what point we have a deal, at
what point it can be renegotiated and
it's the reason why the market is taking
this a little bit more seriously because
it feels like potentially this is really
igniting something different in the
leaders of Europe. Two things to note
too, 10:00 a.m. today the Supreme Court
will be meeting. It's an opinion day. We
could get the tariff decision and all of
these tariffs the president is talking
about, the reciprocal tariffs, he used
IEEPA and that might be struck down at
the Supreme Court. The other thing I
think we need to remember, you remember
the president went to NATO in his first
term, he ran out of meetings, there was
all this chaos [music]
but at the end of the day he got to a
destination he wanted. He anchored it to
the extreme
>> [music]
>> and he got to a destination was that
Europe is spending much more on the
collective defense. Potentially
Greenland is part of that. [music]
Anchor to the extreme and get to a net
destination of travel. He spoke about
Greenland in 2019, [music] how it was
critical for NATO, how it was critical
for national security and its defense.
>> Less [music] policy, let's talk about
business. Two hours of conversations
already and two hours of conversations
about a lot of optimism around America.
That's still the story. Look, I know a
lot has changed in the last 12 months.
We talked about that with Gita Gopinath
just moments ago but how much money is
being invested in the US economy? How
big are these bets the big tech firms
are taking? They're absolutely massive
and they're still making them. And when
you ask CEOs around the world what's the
number one destination for capital,
overwhelmingly the favorite still the
United States of America. It's big tech
versus politics and here in Davos it's
facing off with one another and you've
got the big tech worship and you've got
all the business leaders leading into
that story because the politics one
messy and unclear.
>> And tech won in the last 12 months and
you saw that in the equity market.
Coming up this hour we'll catch up with
the IBM vice chairman Gary Cohn. We'll
speak to the Coreweave CEO Michael
Intrator. Look out for that and plus
this, a headline act a little bit later
on, the Finland president Alexander
Stubb. We begin this hour with stocks
extending their sell-off as President
Donald Trump's push to take control of
Greenland is sending fresh volatility
into markets worldwide. The IBM vice
chairman and former NEC director Gary
Cohn joins us now for more. Gary, great
to see you. Good for Thanks for having
me. Hey, you had the Y up in the
program. There seemed to be a concrete
ideology when you were alongside the
president in his first term.
Well, how would you describe this
moment? What is this all about?
You know, no one knows for sure
but I think what we've seen evolve in
the Trump presidency is this desire to
negotiate and get a deal. So ultimately
is Greenland all about getting a deal?
We know that the North Atlantic is
becoming much more of a a sought-after
territory from a military standpoint. So
I understand the president's concern to
have a military presence and protection
of the North Atlantic. As if we want to
expand our air defenses, Greenland is a
pretty strategic spot. So I understand
what the president's interest is. They
also have rare earths which is something
that we in the United States can't
supply to ourselves. So the question is
is this
a a negotiating posture to get a deal
with Greenland to get more rare earths,
to get a larger naval and air force
presence and it may be. It does seem
like that's on the table and this may
all evolve in a place where the United
States ends up in a very good strategic
position.
>> think that's the way the business world
sees it coming into the World Economic
Forum this week? You know, I I I think
the business world's split on it. You
know, you've obviously got a European
presence here and a US presence here. I
think the US presence is a little bit
more optimistic that this is going to
end in the right place and we've seen
this before. I think the European
contingency is a little more leery and
say look, you know, may maybe you're
confident this ends well, we don't like
being in the middle of this right now.
>> Which is a reason why in European hours
Treasuries are selling off much more and
the dollar was much lower and as the US
wakes up people are coming in and buying
it. How much is the sell America trade
real and how much is it a perception
based on these moments, the ones that we
saw at Liberation Day? Look, there is
some sell America going on right now.
I've met with a couple different asset
managers this morning. Said that global
funds are reallocating a little bit out
of the United States. So you see that,
you know, interest rates are higher so
people selling bonds rates go higher.
People are repatriating currency back
home. They're selling dollars to buy
local currency. They're selling stock
market. They've got to repatriate
currency. So I think we're seeing a
little bit of that. I don't think that's
what's driving the overall market right
now. It doesn't feel like we've got a
liquidate America. It feels like we've
got a trim around the edges in asset
allocation models going on right now.
>> back This goes back to the wrestling
match we were describing. AI on one
side, you've got politics in the other
and they're facing off and it's sort of
sell America until AI rears its head and
makes it get to the lead. And that's
what we're doing. And it's sell America
till the light turns green and everyone
has to buy America.
>> [laughter]
>> Because in in in the real reality if you
look at the US economy and what's going
on, we've got one of the strongest
economies in the world today. You know,
we're growing at 5 plus percent growth.
You know, we've got a a pretty good
tailwind going on behind us. I mean
right now the only thing stopping is is
all this geopolitical risk. If if and
when and I say when, uh this
geopolitical risk settles down, the
market's probably going to take off
again. That's been the history of this
pattern. Settle down. Gary, two and a
half weeks ago we captured Nicolas
Maduro. It feels like a decade ago. Now
[laughter] we're sitting in Davos
talking about Greenland. You think
geopolitics will settle down under a
Trump administration?
Yeah, we're going to settle down.
I I I think that there's a there's a
couple balls up in the air right now.
Oh, a couple. But you know, this this
this too shall pass. We can go back in
the last 8 12 years and there's been
periods of time where we've had these,
you know, highly volatile geopolitical
moments. We're in a highly volatile
geopolitical moment right now and and by
the way, I'm not sure it's a coincidence
that Davos is right in the middle. All
right, interesting. I want to ask you
about the Fed chair race because you
were in the room with the president in
Trump one when he decided to go for Jay
Powell. What kind of questions do you
think he's lobbing at these individuals
and in the end who do you think it's
going to come down to? Look, the
president's in an enviable position
right now. He's got what we know, he's
got four really highly qualified
candidates. Any one of those four could
do a really good job in there. I think
the president at this point is trying to
understand the sort of mindset of the
person he's going to put in the
position. President clearly has a view
on what interest rate policy should be.
The pro- The problem or the opportunity
with the Fed job is once he appoints
someone into that job, they're an
independent agency and he loses his
day-to-day contact with that person. So,
I think the the president learned in the
first administration that it's very
important to who he puts in that job and
that he should make sure that he's very
comfortable with their policy mandate
before he appoints them. Do you think
it's become even more important now that
that individual needs to have the
ability to persuade the rest of the
committee in a way that maybe a few
years ago that wasn't at all relevant.
There's just a sense on Wall Street that
the president's approach in the last 12
months has galvanized the rest of the
committee to dig in.
Look, I think the committee structure is
going to be the committee structure. I'm
not sure if the chair person can
ultimately sway the committee that far.
Could they sway one vote or two votes
potentially? But you've got some very
strong regional bank presidents. You've
got some very strong governors in in the
Fed. I think the Fed ultimately at the
end of the day is going to be a tough
group to persuade. I think they'll come
out in the right place. I mean,
historically the Fed has done a very
good job. Have they been a little bit
late? Yeah, they were late in the
transitory inflationary problem of
COVID. But they've caught up. They've
gotten to the right place. I think if
you look at the Fed through the cycle,
they end up getting to the right place.
>> You were diplomatic about the four
candidates. Can I just talk about some
of them individually?
You can. Governor Chris Waller,
>> [laughter]
>> you can, too.
>> Yeah, you can. Governor Chris Waller, I
believe you were part of that process,
right? Vice Chair Clarida, you were part
of that process, too. What was the
president's approach to that process
back then? Was he as involved as he
appears to be now?
He was not as involved then, but
remember, he was a first-term president
who was an outsider to Washington. That
was part of his mystique as he was an
outsider to Washington.
He knew he had to put someone into the
Fed Fed chair's role and he and he
approached it, but I think now
understanding the importance of interest
rate policy and understanding his view
of interest rate policy, he's taking
considerably more time talking to the
the various candidates.
>> I'll ask you the question Mike gave in
trouble.
Is Kevin Warsh a chameleon?
Is he a hawk? Is he a dove? Is he
whatever it takes to get the job? Why
didn't he get the job last time?
>> Look, Kevin is highly qualified. Without
a doubt. Kevin has served in the Fed.
>> Without a doubt. Kevin was there during
some of the toughest days of the Fed
during the financial crisis. I
personally was dealing with Kevin on an
hourly basis as we were trying to figure
out what was going on in the United
States financial system. Kevin was an
active participant in the outcome that
we all benefited from and without
Kevin's wisdom, I'm not sure we would
have ended up in the same place. He's a
highly qualified candidate. It sounds
like out of the four, that's who you'd
like to see in the seat based on that
strong defense of Kevin Warsh. I think I
think Kevin Hassett's a great candidate.
I worked with Kevin Hassett when I was
in the White House. He was the CEA
director. Share your thoughts on Kevin
Hassett.
>> Kevin Hassett was was an excellent CEA
director.
>> Let me tell you what some people say
about Kevin Hassett, that if he's
appointed, that's a puppet of the
president of the United States who'll
sit there, smile, and do whatever it
takes. Is that unfair? You know, you and
I both know whoever gets appointed,
there will be people that are
disappointed and will have negative
things to say about him.
On the flip side, there will be people
that will be very happy with whoever one
of those four gets appointed. And if
it's if it's a fifth candidate we
haven't seen yet, they'll be equally as
happy with that one. There is a sense
that whoever's going to be there,
they're going to cut rates. How much is
the entire buildout of AI, which is what
you spend most of your time talking
about here, based on the idea that the
Fed is going to be easing policy no
matter what? Like the the AI buildout
and rates,
they're linked, but they're not
inextricably linked. This AI buildout is
being built because there's demand.
There's forward demand and the AI
companies feel like they are behind the
curve in being able to facilitate the
needs of their clients. They are going
to build these data centers. The only
question that rates have is what is the
ultimate all-in cost to build these
things. And interest rates are going to
be important. These are big, huge CapEx
expenditures with 30-year lives. So, you
know, the amount of interest you're
going to pay to finance one of these
centers is important. So, 25 or 50 basis
points has a lot to do with with these
decisions, but I will caution you like I
always do. The Fed only controls Fed
funds. They control overnight rates.
You've been talking all morning about
the 10-year. The 10-year is at 4:30.
Where these where these data centers are
going to be financed, they're going to
be financed to the medium, to the long,
to the very long end of the curve. It's
going to be a combination of duration.
Fed funds is not going to affect that.
So, Fed funds could possibly go down and
the interest rate to finance a a data
center could be unchanged. Do you miss
the trading floor?
Of course you miss the trading floor.
>> Yeah, I get the feeling you miss the
trading floor. Can you imagine how scary
things were back at Goldman back in the
day? But that's when there First year
analyst Gary's walking the trading
floor. Yeah, I think they he would have
he would have probably But John, that's
when there really were trading floors.
Like we actually stood up and talked on
phones and spoke to each other and Did
it prepare you for the
>> now it's machines. Now it's machines.
Did it prepare you for the West Wing? Uh
it did. It did. It very much did. In
what way, Gary?
Just I think the the ability to be
watching five different things going on
at the same time and be listening in
five places. People in the in the in the
White House were always um amazed that I
could be like having a conversation over
here and talking to someone behind me
cuz I I heard them talking. But when you
grow up in a trading floor and you grow
up in a trading environment, your eyes
and ears have to see everything.
>> With one eye on JGBs this morning as
well. Very thank you. It's good to see
you.
>> Thank you. Thanks for sharing some of
your experience. That was Gary Cohn
there, the IBM vice chairman. Let's get
you an update on news worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Vanya Quinn. Hey, Vanya.
Hey, John. Thank you. Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent is urging European allies
to remain calm over President Trump's
Greenland claims.
>> [music]
>> Speaking in Davos this morning,
Secretary Bessent compared the uproar to
the political throwback over President
Trump's [music] tariff announcement last
April. He also dismissed suggestions
that Europe is retaliating by dumping US
Treasuries, calling [music] that a false
narrative.
Apple regaining the lead in China's
smartphone market after iPhone shipments
jumped 28% during the holiday quarter.
According to research firm Counterpoint,
the iPhone 17 drew in consumers with
Apple's handsets accounting for one in
every five shipments. Rivals Huawei and
Xiaomi experienced [music] double-digit
percentage declines.
Indiana University has won the college
football national championship after
defeating the Miami Hurricanes 27-21.
[music]
The Hoosiers finished with a perfect 16
and 0 record, winning their first ever
national title in program history.
Quarterback Fernando Mendoza became the
eighth Heisman Trophy winner to win a
national championship.
And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
Hey, Vanya. Appreciate it. Thanks for
the update. Up next on the program,
we'll catch up with the CoreWeave CEO,
Michael Intrator from Davos,
Switzerland. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> What a start to our coverage here at
Davos, Switzerland at the World Economic
Forum. Day one for the team here at
Bloomberg Surveillance. On day two, it's
all about the president's address to
this forum. Europe very much on edge and
I have to say markets were, too. Things
are recovering slowly going into the
cash open. Equities are off the lows on
the S&P 500 and on the Nasdaq. This was
a theme that you were leaning into,
Lisa, earlier on this morning that when
America woke up, when the US session
started, there was a chance that this
dip would get bought. There was a whole
day of discussion, of rhetoric, of
trading without the US participating
because of the holiday. And so there was
a lot of discussion around Greenland
really just permeating through every a
bit of action. Now suddenly there's more
discussion about AI and growth and all
sorts of other things coming from the US
audience.
>> Without a question though, there were
our questions about the risk mitigation
characteristics of Treasuries. I don't
think that's gone away. You're not
seeing that flight to safety, flight to
quality at least in the Treasury market.
Yields were elevated even as equities
were down and down hard and that's a
theme for us again this morning. And as
[music] you've been pointing out all
morning, the dollar has been weaker in
tandem with those higher yields. So,
something is going on. My spidey sense
has a sense that maybe this time feels a
little bit like a repeat of April. And
frankly, as we heard from Gary Cohn just
then, we do see a shift in allocations,
a divers- diversification away from the
United States.
>> and ballot about 1 hour and 10 minutes
away. Let's talk about AI and one
company at the epicenter of this whole
theme in the last 12 months, CoreWeave.
The CEO, Michael Intrator, joins us now
for more. Mike, good to see you, sir.
Thanks for having me. How difficult has
it been to keep up with demand in the
last 12 months? Uh so so uh it's not the
last 12 months. It really has been a a
sustained
uh issue um across the space. So, not
just for us, but for for really um
uh all of the companies that are trying
to serve infrastructure to AI models
that are being used by enterprise, that
are being used by governments, that are
being used by uh
uh retail. It's it's it's really been a
relentless
uh
um uh and voracious requirement to
continue to build infrastructure as fast
as you can.
>> What are the big constraints at the
moment? So, the the the the constraints
um are really around our ability to
bring up power shells
uh fast enough to be able to
uh kind of
uh manage this incredible spike in
demand. Um you know, over time
uh you know, as as the markets do what
markets do, which will be to to to
address
um the the the infrastructure issues,
the constraint will move to power. The
constraint will be from fabs and their
ability to to uh uh generate more uh
chips and and memory and you know it so
it moves around but right now that that
the single most difficult issue is
really to focus on
the the power shells. There's some
skepticism around the industry just at
large but in particular around your
company.
There was a recent lawsuit having to do
with over representing capacity on the
part of Coreweave ahead of the IPO
last year. What's your response to that
type of skepticism and that claim in
particular?
The company will vigorously
um
fight that claim.
We believe that it's baseless
and you know there there's an enormous
amount of information out there about
the company about demand and about our
ability to build it and when we're going
to build it and so
you know these things happen but we're
we're not terribly concerned about that.
>> Your IPO is in March your shares are up
130% it's not a terrible performance I
will say. There is a question about
whether there are constraints building
in financing markets. When you had that
$2 billion debt sale there was a sell
off in shares a question around how well
you could finance this in an efficient
way.
How are you dealing with that? Is it
challenging your ability to use the debt
markets going forward? So so there was a
brief sell off which actually recovered
through the rest of the day. So
I think that uh
there is significant amount of appetite
in the markets for
um
>> [groaning]
>> products that can be underwritten where
the off takes are from creditworthy
entities where you have a company like
Coreweave that has built an incredible
reputation around our software and about
our ability to integrate you know
Nvidia's GPUs which are the best
silicon solution in market with the best
software solution in market to deliver
the best product in market and you know
the capital markets have been very very
receptive to that will continue to be
receptive to that as long as the
products are structured correctly and
the counterparties are strong
we don't see any any lack of demand for
for in the capital markets to build the
infrastructure we need. We've been
talking all morning there's really this
push pull at Davos when it comes to the
politics and geopolitics and AI. The
president's going to talk about
affordability and you recently had
governors from blue states and red
states at the White House basically
telling
tech companies they need to subsidize
American consumers.
When you see these hyperscalers how do
they make sure that they are maintaining
the grid not just for themselves but
keeping prices lower for Americans? Yeah
so so look the the politicians they're
they're balancing many priorities as as
they are as they're
thinking about artificial intelligence
as they're thinking about affordability
as they're thinking about
geopolitics all of those things are
coming to bear on how they think about
and how they frame this discussion.
Around the affordability component in
particular you know
we believe in
we have
aggressively taken the position that it
is important that companies that are
building AI pay their fair share of of
of the
requirements to deliver power to these
data centers.
It's going to be important in the short
term and it's going to be important in
the long term as artificial intelligence
continues to permeate the economy and
you know there's a great opportunity for
us to really kind of build out a system
to be able to ensure that we're playing
that role as we continue to scale this
business which is so important for so
many different aspects of society. Just
quickly and I understand it's a complex
question so forgive me for the time
constraints but how do we value the
lifespan of a GPU? It feels like that's
like the key question right now in
financial markets and you're at the
heart of it. Yeah so
look I I
I'm pretty aggressive about this right?
Like the way that I
conceptualize how to
value the depreciation curve or the
obsolescence curve of technology is a
function of our clients and what they
are willing to pay for it.
There is no argument that will get me to
concede that a GPU becomes obsolete when
I have clients who are the smartest
most experienced users of this compute
that come in and buy compute from us for
six years. They know new technology is
coming. So the idea that this technology
becomes obsolete or useless after
[music] three years or two years it's
bunk. It's a it's a narrative that's
been put out there
by people who are trying to influence
the discussion around a stock
but the truth of the matter is is you
know if Microsoft and Meta and Nvidia
are buying compute for long-term
contracts they know new technology is
coming and they're going to buy it
anyway because they know it's got value.
>> [music]
>> At the heart of the price action in the
last 24 hours a dispute over Greenland
and tension rising between Europe
>> [music]
>> and America. The French president
Emmanuel Macron addressing the World
Economic Forum on this very
relationship. The headlines just
crossing moments ago. Yeah absolutely
he's talking about the fact that Europe
must defend multilateralism. What you
hear Emmanuel Macron talk about is
plainly using one of their most volatile
things that they can go into their
toolbox which is this anti-coercion rule
which means more tariffs maybe going
after tech companies. [music]
This has struck a nerve in Europe. What
I get from European officials is they
feel existential here at Davos.
Americans are kind of shrugging it.
Treasury secretary this morning said sit
back take a breath which just like April
2nd when it comes to the hysteria it
feels like the Americans are looking for
a deal and they're ready to negotiate
right here.
>> Understandably it's emotional on the
European side and we'll see if those
emotions settle down when the president
addresses this forum tomorrow afternoon.
Emotional in the markets as well things
are recovering just slightly equity
futures down hard throughout this
morning recovering just a little bit and
off session lows. The S&P 500 was down
by close to 2% you can see the recovery
so far this morning in the bond market
as well yields were much higher than
where they are at the moment. 10-year
bond yields getting close to 430 just
backing away at 427. Let's get you some
morning movers with 60 minutes until the
opening bell. Here's Danny Berger with
more. Hey Danny. John let's start with
one of the positive stories this morning
because a lot is down and that is an
acquisition by the UK drug company GSK.
They are buying the pharma company Rapt
Therapeutics. They make immunology and
anti-inflammatory disease treatments.
Those shares up 63%. [music]
The premium that they're paying is about
65% so we're almost there. It is a $2.2
billion deal. I want to show you one
area of this market that does seem to be
leading some of the losses. As you
pointed out John they have eased but we
still are looking at Western Digital
SanDisk down at least 1.4%. Micron's
down just a third of 1% but it is these
memory chip stocks that have been the
high flyers thus far in 2026 that have
been hurt in the broader and especially
tech focus sell off of this morning.
Finally we've been getting a couple
regional bank earnings coming through
for the most part the reaction to them
has just been negative. The bar has been
high they've been rallying this year.
KeyCorp they're faring the worst so far
this morning down 2.2% even though they
beat across most of their metrics saying
they're [music] going to return
shareholder capital. US Bancorp that's
up 1 and a quarter percent they're
working through their acquisition of
BTIG and Fifth Third they're working
through their acquisition of Comerica.
So that has been the theme for the US
regional bank earnings is that they are
getting bigger John.
Danny thank you looking forward to the
coverage around the opening bell more
from Danny a little bit later this
morning. Let's turn to energy.
Investments in data center construction
is expected to jump again this year
adding pressure to already soaring costs
for households. The man who knows a lot
about this is Chris Womack the CEO of
Southern Company and Chris joins us now
for more. Chris good day to you. It's
good to see you.
>> to be with you guys. Can you help us
visualize electricity demand over the
last decade or so and just describe how
much things have changed in the past few
years alone? It's been it's been pretty
incredible and Southern Company we've
seen say over the past three or four
years mean demand being pretty flat
but but of late I mean we're seeing
upwards of 8 9 10% growth as we look
into the future. So we're seeing
incredible growth incredible demand
incredible opportunity
to serve these data center customers
which is an incredible opportunity that
we're really excited about.
>> with risk as well for society. The
president has talked about affordability
issues. I believe you yourself in the
last 12 months addressing a Bloomberg
event talked about the prospect of a
revolution if we don't do something
about this. Are we doing enough? I think
I think we are. I mean I I think there's
a there's a model about how to do this.
I mean and what I see work with data
center customers in terms of them being
willing to to to cover their cost. I
mean to pay their share and when we do
that that provides us the opportunity to
benefit all existing customers. So the
model is there. I mean what we see in
the Southern Company territory is the
ability to price it right for those data
center customers and then provide
incredible benefits to the rest of our
customers as we have this growth and
thus provide rate stability. So we
figured out how to do this across our
territory. We know there's more
communications to be done to explain
that but we see an incredible
opportunity with this growth. On Friday
President Trump announced that he's
going to be selling energy directly to
some of these technology companies
having an auction specifically for them.
Do you think this is a good idea? I mean
I think at certain places like the PJM
regional transmission organization this
makes sense because I mean they're
having incredible price pressures as
capacity is taken out of the market.
It's really providing some constraints.
What's happening there is not happening
everywhere. Like I talk about the
vertical integrated market that we have
in the Southern Company territory. I
mean we own generation and we provide
services all the way through through the
distribution directly to customers and
so we're seeing more stability there but
I think in that in that PJ PJM
marketplace this will make sense and
it's probably a good idea to help.
What's the right balance right now
between allowing prices to be set by the
market and preventing, as you were
talking about, a revolution, right? I
mean, at what point do you need extra
capital to come in, extra support in
order to meet the demand that seems to
be never-ending at this point?
>> Well, I think that the key in what we're
finding out is the price we we come to
we come to agreement with with these
data center customers. With this growth,
and if you price it right, you price it
properly, you have the opportunity to
provide benefits to existing customers
into those communities. If you get that
right, growth can provide great balance,
great benefits, and great price
stability to all existing customers. So,
there's a model to do this, and that's
what we're seeing that's working across
our territory in in in Southern Company.
Chris, do we have enough energy given
the fact that actually this
administration has made it clear they
like some energy over others? I think
it's going to be incredible to really
invest in all the above. I do think we
have enough. Clue, there's more growth
we have to make. I mean, we're looking
at building some gigawatts of power in
in our territory by the end of the
decade. So, there's a need to build
more, but I think you have to make sure
you get in the right markets, in the
right structure that provides you the
incentives to build, and then once
again, making sure that we price it
right, that the model is right, [music]
so that all customers benefit some from
this incredible opportunity that we're
facing. But when you're saying
incentives, are there incentives anymore
for renewables from the government?
>> Well,
incentives renewables now are are are
economic. I mean, if you look at when I
say all the above, I mean, that's
natural gas, but that's also battery
energy storage. I mean, so, bringing
batteries online. I mean, so, the
economics now work out with renewables,
and as we make these kind of decisions.
So, some may need incentives, but a lot
of renewables incentives are not
necessary to move forward, to be a part
of this mix.
>> Chris, have you noticed that the
regulator that you work alongside has
taken a bit more of a pragmatic approach
about the pace we should make this
transition? There's a lot of concern but
because there's a lot of people just
don't have all the information and not
aware of all that is going on. There's a
lot of information that we have to
communicate. There's a lot of
information data centers, and the
hyperscalers also have to communicate to
educate regulators about what's really
taking place.
I think the critical part of all this,
the US must maintain leadership around
artificial intelligence. And so, we all
must work collaboratively together to
make sure we meet this moment, which I
think we can, but we also have to make
sure that we do this in a way that
benefits all customers. And we see how
this plays out in our territory, and I
think it's going to continue to work and
provide us with the growth that that we
need to have, but also provide benefits
in a long-term way for all of our
existing customers.
>> Chris, you've got a busy week ahead of
you. We appreciate you making some time
for us. Thank you, sir.
>> Guys, thank you very much. Thank you for
the opportunity.
>> Womack there, the Southern Company CEO.
Got some breaking news just moments ago,
headline crossed on the Bloomberg
terminal. I'd like to bring it to you. A
Danish pension fund to exit US
Treasuries. We'll get you the broader,
bigger story on that, but in the context
of what's been developing in the last
few days, the relationship between the
United States and Denmark breaking down,
not just over the past few days, but the
last several months, that is notable
given the sell-off we've seen already in
Treasuries earlier in the session. Yeah,
and this is what you hear in terms of
the emotional response. It happened
after Liberation Day last year, but
you're hearing that on the margins from
other pension funds, too.
Danish The Danish pension fund in
particular is in the hot seat just
because of Denmark and Greenland and the
whole situation there. Nevertheless,
they're not alone.
Let's get you an update on news
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vani Quint for more. Hey, Vani. Hey,
John. Thank you.
>> [music]
>> President Donald Trump said he will meet
with several parties and devils over his
plans to take control of Greenland. The
president said he had a quote very good
telephone call with NATO Secretary
General Mark Rutte [music] and told him
Greenland is imperative for national and
world security.
President Trump inviting world leaders
to become members of his G7 board of
peace.
>> [music]
>> Invitees include the leaders of Russia,
Turkey, Argentina, and Canada. According
to a draft charter seen by Bloomberg,
the Trump administration is asking
countries that want a permanent spot to
contribute at least $1 billion. [music]
French President Emmanuel Macron
declining to join the board.
If you're shopping for an engagement
ring ahead of Valentine's Day, it might
cost you a little less [music] this
year. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that De Beers is cutting its
official diamond prices for the first
time in more than a year.
The diamond industry has been hurt by a
pullback in Chinese luxury spending and
the rising popularity of synthetic
[music] stones.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
Hey, Vani. Thank you. Thank you very
much. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Finland's President
Alexander Stubb [music] with tensions
rising over Greenland. From Davos,
Switzerland, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> What a start to work after a long
weekend stateside. Equities down and
rolling over again going into the
opening down negative by round about
1.5%. Similar move on the Nasdaq, on the
Russell, as well. In the bond market, a
sell-off in Treasuries, not too big
given the backdrop we're talking about
here. Japanese yield tied by more
[music] than 20 basis points. We're high
by six, but a headline across the
Bloomberg terminal a moment ago, notable
given the tension rising between
European and American partners at the
moment. A Danish pension fund pushing to
sell its holding of Treasuries. Now,
only about $100 million, as I understand
it, Lisa, but still notable given the
pressure and the tension that's rising
into this meeting.
>> And just it is notable that the euro
rose to a session high versus the dollar
on this type of move, and it really
builds on the emotion of the moment that
we feel and that we hear from a lot of
fund managers whether that type of shift
continues, whether it is [music] bigger
than this particular fund remains to be
seen. Nonetheless, it is a flavor of
what is being talked about here, and you
cannot ignore that.
>> Uh things going to settle down. The
president threatening [music] to impose
additional tariffs on some European
allies supporting Denmark while he
pursues Greenland. The Finland President
Alexander Stubb joins us now for more.
Mr. President, good to see you. Nice to
see you.
>> Thanks for always making some time for
us. Look, I would never traditionally
start a conversation like this with a
head of state, but given the news flow
and the headlines and the pictures of
texts we've seen over the past few days,
I have to get a better understanding
from you directly. I understand you were
on an exchange with the President of the
United States where the president almost
explicitly linked his failure to win the
Nobel Peace Prize with a more assertive
stance on Greenland. Did that actually
happen?
Well, yeah. I mean, we do message a lot
with the president, and sometimes I
message together with the Prime Minister
of Norway, Jonas Gahr Støre. So, yes,
the response was as has been reported.
And this is what frank diplomacy is all
about. This is quite normal in our
engagements behind the scenes, and it's
good that we have these conversations.
>> You'll have to forgive me, but for many
people, they don't feel that it's normal
to connect the failure to win a prize
with a more assertive stance over
someone else's territory.
It is normal to have direct talks.
Of course, on the Greenland issue, I
disagree with the president.
I think now what we need to do is to
bring down the temperature. We need to
find an off-ramp and probably create
some kind of a process which will
strengthen Arctic security. And sort of
at the end of the tunnel, I wish we
could have a NATO summit in Ankara where
we all agree on a new Arctic security
structure. I come from an Arctic
country. I come from a country which has
one of the biggest militaries in Europe.
I come from a country which has the best
know-how in Arctic defense. So, these
are the types of
things that we need to work with with
the alliance, including the United
States. President Trump has been talking
about Greenland since 2019. What makes
it different this time? What does an
off-ramp actually look like? I think
there's a short-term scenario here, and
there's a long-term. Short-term is to
basically de-escalate the language, and
I hope we'll see some of that here in
Davos here today, tomorrow, and the day
after tomorrow. And then the second one
is a long-term strategic thinking on,
"Okay, is this an issue of sovereignty,
or is it an issue of security?" I hope
that it is an issue of security, and
then we start looking at how we can beef
up security in the Arctic region. Now,
the latest conversations that I've had
about this subject in the past 2 to 3
hours, this is how fast things are
changing in the new foreign policy
world, gives me a little bit of hope
that we'll find a way. It feels like a
live negotiation. The president, a lot
of the time, does come out with
something very aggressive to get to an
end point, which really is just a better
deal. I like in this to NATO. At one
point, there was reports he wanted to
pull out of NATO, but really at the end
of the day, he wanted Europe to spend
more. Is that how you view this, through
that lens? Well, first of all, the
President of the United States has a
capacity to deal with a multiplicity of
issues at the same time. I mean, you
only look at what's happened this year,
Venezuela,
Iran, Greenland,
Gaza, the peace board, and many other
things at the same time. And of course,
add on to that domestic issues. On the
NATO issue, if someone would have told
me at the 75th anniversary of NATO in
Washington, D.C. in 2024, I think it
was, that we are looking at increasing
our defense expenditure to 5% next year,
I would say, "Please go and see a doctor
or consult the Foreign Affairs magazine,
because this is not going to happen."
Now, if at the end of the day after this
what could be called rhetorical
escalation we come up with a stronger
Arctic security then that is good
and and obviously we're seeing foreign
policy done in a slightly different way
from what we're used to but you know I'm
a Finn I I I thought you'd ask the first
question that you know what are you what
do you do I said in these kinds of
situations you take a deep breath you go
in the sauna and you take an ice bath
and that's what we're missing that's
what we're missing [laughter] here in
the
Well it's quite a scene. You could have
the ice bath right there. Look there is
this question Mr. President about why
European nations were sending more
troops to Greenland over the past couple
of days in the past week. At first it
was to beef up and and show that they
were serious about the security.
>> what it was about at all.
>> Okay so the way that it was taken by
President Trump was to defend from the
United States. Yeah I think there was
probably a misunderstanding or not
probably there was. So basically let me
explain.
There is something called Arctic
endurance which is basically a NATO
training exercise.
That exercise has eight different
components all of which the United
States is present. We were asked by our
allies to go and do a reconnaissance
mission mission to check out the
territory the landscape and how it's
going to work out. This is completely
normal procedure. And obviously I can't
talk about the specifics of that
exercise but trust me it is not trying
to protect anything Westbound it's more
Eastbound. At what point do you feel
like you're just fielding calls because
you're thought of as a Trump whisperer?
I mean what are you telling your your
your your your colleagues and other
European nations about how to deal with
Mr. Well I I I think you know diplomacy
be a lot of times when people analyze
diplomacy they look at it on a
state-to-state relations you know what's
the
values interests power culture history
geography. But they forget that a lot of
it is actually about person-to-person
engagement
and the fact that
I'm able to communicate directly with
the president puts me as president of
Finland into good position but I have no
illusions about being a Trump whisperer
you know it's it's
he's the president of the United States
he decides completely for himself.
I throw out a couple of ideas sometimes
he likes them sometimes he doesn't and
then I throw ideas to our other European
allies and friends that's what diplomacy
is about. When did you last speak?
Uh we spoke it was a collective phone
call I think in Paris on the
5th of December or Berlin I forget when
it was but we did message. Yeah yeah
with but that was sort of a collective.
>> And the last message with each other was
in the last few hours? I think it's been
made public.
That [laughter] was the last time you
spoke that's the last time you messaged.
>> time we messaged yes. The reason I ask
you this is I'm trying to gauge whether
there was a misunderstanding. It
certainly seems like you perceived there
was a misunderstanding.
>> Well my perception is that it was a
misunderstanding so now we need to you
know sit down discuss get an off-ramp
and at the end of the day we need more
Arctic security and with European and
American presence. This is clearly
clearly played out very publicly and
you've been transparent about how frank
things are often behind the scenes but
given how publicly this has played out
what kind of a message do you think this
is sending to the Russians at the moment
the way this is playing out? Uh well
anytime there is
a diplomatic issue to put it
diplomatically
between us the transatlantic partners
I'm sure that the Kremlin is enjoying
it. I mean and they will use it as they
best can
as we saw you know I mean
Foreign Minister of Russia Lavrov puts
out a tweet and saying that for
for for the US Greenland is what Crimea
is for Russia and obviously you know
that's an insult and and and we all
understand that. So we always have to be
careful with the Russians because they
will use any moment and any possibility
for
good old information warfare propaganda.
The unintended consequences is just
creates more of a positive attitude
towards Russia and China and divides the
transatlantic relationship. How big of a
concern is that especially if we just
saw Mark Carney go over to Beijing and
say they have this new strategic
partnership?
Yeah I mean I I think you know I'm I'm
very pro-European I'm very pro-American
and I'm a transatlanticist so it is in
my interests and also based on my values
that we have a closer relationship with
the United States. That's why I'm also
very pragmatic. I understand that the
United States is the number one
superpower and what we need to avoid of
course is a certain disengagement. At
the same time I have to say that Europe
needs to
use this moment as well you know it
needs to beef up its defense it needs to
get stronger economically and I think
you know my big thesis is that it's
going to be the global South that
decides the new world order so that
means that we need to engage more with
the likes of India. I really like the
free trade agreement that the EU forged
with Mercosur
and and and I think people will start
looking a little bit elsewhere but I
really still want to contain and bring
back the US as as best we can. On top of
Russia on that conversation I've been
told that discussions are going very
well between the United States and
Ukrainians United States and the
Russians Kirill Dmitriev reportedly is
here having a conversation with Steve
Wozniak off today.
How much longer do you think it will
take to get that deal done? Do you think
Putin even wants a deal? Okay so two
observations on this. The first one is
that
I'm afraid that the Greenland issue will
take all the oxygen here in Davos from
the Ukraine dossier which
I still think is is fundamentally
important and acute. But the second
point is good news. I think ever since
Jared Kushner came in to the game
actually in Geneva right after the G20
Summit and we had another meeting in
Berlin and then in Paris we have a lot
of more practicality. So we basically
have depends on how you count six
documents or two pi
or two plus five documents.
The good news is that Ukraine the United
States and the coalition of the willing
or Europe we're on the same page. The
big question is are the Russians?
I'm quite skeptical about that you know
I I I think we might get a deal on
security arrangements we might get a
deal on territory certainly on the
prosperity package I'm I'm quite hopeful
that we'll get something here this week
but then the Russians will say niet.
Well if Russia continues to drag the
United States along do you have a sense
of what Trump's red line is with Putin?
I'm not going to start interpreting the
red lines of the president of the United
States but I have to say that I really
like what he did on Lukoil and Rosneft
on the sanctions
and and to be honest I mean Putin lied
to President Trump
about the drones hitting his dacha they
fired ballistic missiles so this is
something that certainly will shorten
the fuse of the president of the United
States
and of course depends on how much carrot
do you put before you hit with the big
stick. Just a final question we often
ask our guests for forecasts at the
World Economic Forum. I'm not going to
ask for a long-term one. Where do you
think we'll be at the end of this week?
Uh I think we will have diffused the
Greenland issue. I think we will have
made progress
on Ukraine
and I am 100% sure that the world will
not be finished by then. Mr. President
thanks for your time. Thanks. I always
feel underdressed in his presence. Well
yeah.
>> Every time. I've got I've got to get an
invite.
My my sense is that I should be doing
more saunas and having ice baths and
maybe I'll have that upbeat outlook
I'm sure they'll have you they they host
sauna
100% I'm on board. You make it happen
Mr. President thank you sir. Thank you
very much. Finland's President Alexander
Stubb. Coming up this week our coverage
continues Morgan Stanley CEO Ted Pick
the Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan
the US Energy Secretary Chris Wright and
the US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross
and a whole lot more on day one for the
team here in Davos Switzerland at the
World Economic Forum the team being
Bloomberg Surveillance the coverage will
continue and the sell-off is as well.
The S&P 500 down by 1.5% a sell-off in
the bond market sell America on the
margins in focus on a dress from the
president in the next 24 hours. The
agenda ripped up. We start the program
by talking about how much effort goes
into the World Economic Forum in Davos
Switzerland months [music] and months of
effort go into it goes into it then the
president sets his own agenda and
everybody else gets in line. From Davos
Switzerland good morning.
>> [music]